                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                 Wednesday, September 2, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Approve geotechnical study work in support of CDBG-DR GLO 2024 Disasters grant-funded bridge project on CR 102 and 
      authorize the County Engineer as signatory. 

 2.   Accept donation and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 3.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for June 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, in 
      accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 7.   Human Resources, IT, Elections 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 8.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce;        
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

 Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Agents  

 9.   Quarterly Interpretation. 

 Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Cave Wells (DT) 

 10.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to act on paying a tree service to work on the trees and crepe 
      myrtles in Historic Anderson Heritage Park. 

 11.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to act on hiring a foundation company to do foundation and 
      construction work on the Steinhagen Museum in Historic Anderson Heritage Park. 

 12.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to accept a live oak tree donation to be planted in Historic 
      Anderson Heritage Park to commemorate the Liberty Tree where American Revolution Patriots planned and organized for the 
      cause of freedom from tyranny. 

 13.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to act on having a water tap added to the Historic Anderson 
      Heritage Park. 

 Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

 14.  Discuss and take action to approve the SRO contracts for the upcoming 2026 - 2027 school year. 

 15.  Discuss and take action to provide requested additional funds to the Grimes County Jail to cover Inmate Food and Inmate 
      Medical expenses resulting from a projected shortfall in the FY 2026 budget. 

 Grimes County Human Resources Director - Atina Adair (JF) 

 16.  Discuss, consider and take action on personnel matters for new Grimes County Sheriff's Office employee. It is expected that 
      the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 17.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Current Burn Ban ordered 
      August 19, 2026, expiring November 17, 2026.) 

 18.  Discuss and take action to donate money from funds received from Unclaimed Capital Credits for Counties pursuant to Texas 
      Local Government Code Section 381.004, e & f. 

 19.  Consider and take action to approve the proposed County Holidays for 2027. 

 20.  Discuss and take action on any issue regarding FY 27 Proposed Budget. 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 08/26/2026  
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 