                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                     Wednesday, July 1, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Receive Internal Audit Report of Justice of the Peace Pct. 1 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI January 1, 2025 - 
      December 31, 2025. 

 2.   Receive Internal Audit Report of the Justice of the Peace Pct. 1 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI January 2026 - 
      March 2026. 

 3.   Receive Internal Audit Report of Justice of the Peace Pct. 2 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI January 1, 2025 - 
      December 31, 2025. 

 4.   Receive Internal Audit Report of the Justice of the Peace Pct. 2 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI January 2026 - 
      March 2026. 

 5.   Receive Internal Audit Report of the Justice of the Peace Pct. 2 - Liability Audit. 

 6.   Review and Accept the internal audit of the Sheriff's Office Jail Administration. 

 7.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for May 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, in 
      accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 8.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 9.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 
10.  Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Employee Service Awards. 

11.  Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
      
     15 YEARS 
     Barbara Kimich 

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

12.  Human Resources, IT, Elections 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

13.  County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
     Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd 

14.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

15.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
     order.) 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (CM/MR) 

16.  Discuss and take action to approve or deny a request for variance from the developer of Traditions RV Park in Precinct 1. 

17.  Discuss and take action to authorize tire disposal fees at solid waste disposal site 

18.  Discuss and take any necessary action on security and security devices at the solid waste collection sites. It is expected the 
     court will convene in closed/executive session to deliberate the deployment or implementation of security personnel, critical 
     infrastructure, or security devices in accordance with Tex. Gov. Code Section 551.089. 

19.  Discuss and take action to adjust the fund deposit period for Grimes County's solid waste collection sites. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

20.  Discuss and take any necessary action on proposed economic development negotiations. EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is 
     expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas 
     Government Code to discuss commercial or financial information that the Commissioners Court has received from EVAPCO, 
     Inc. that the Commissioners Court seeks to have locate, stay, or expand within the County in the Navasota Industrial Park and 
     with which the Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations, and to deliberate the offer of a 
     financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed manufacturing facility for heat-transfer equipment and thermal-
     management systems for cooling, refrigeration, and industrial processing applications. 

Adjourn 

 
                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 07/24/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 