                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                     Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                      The Minutes of the Special Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on March 10, 2026 at 09:00 
AM there was a Commissioners Court Special Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County 
Justice Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
David Tullos 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

1.   Discuss and take action to authorize the award of an administrative service provider contract for the Texas 
     GLO 2024 Disasters Infrastructure Grant Program. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber: Selection committee met last Thursday and selected Grant Works for 
     the award of this 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve the award of an administrative service provider contract to Grant Works 
     for the Texas GLO 2024 Disasters Infrastructure Grant Program and authorize the County Judge as signatory 
     on the Resolution. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed Grant Administration Contract. 

2.   Discussion and possible action on programs to abate illegal dumping, public nuisances, public health 
     nuisances, and other environmental violations in Grimes County. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber: This was asked to be on a future agenda item to discuss and take 
     possible action. Judge Joe Fauth stated he attended a Crime Stoppers meeting and their awards committee has 
     authorized to pay $1000 tip for illegal dumping. This is an increase from the maximum $500 per tip. Since the 
     Road Dept took over Environmental at least 10 fires on property burning trash, 5 locations of tires being 
     dumped. Judge Fauth asked Mr. Steiber about the fires on property if it is the property owner's trash or is it 
     trash being dumped as bringing trash from elsewhere is a violation of the law. Mr Steiber stated it is both 
     scenarios. All of this is considered a nuisance. There are also Public Health Nuisance where some things are 
     so bad it is an environmental disaster. Under current abatement, all that can really be done is investigate the 
     problem and send a letter, but what are the next steps that can be taken? Most letters are lost in the mail. This 
     creates a problem because the 30-day timeline cannot start until the person receives the letter. Mr Steiber 
     stated his department would require close to $100,000/ month to be able to clean up public nuisances. Illegal 
     dumping is normally turned over to Mr Steibers department, meeting with the County Attorney and the 
     District Attorney as to who would prosecute the case, how is the citation issued and who will issue it? 
     Possible action today would be to fund abatement, but come back to Court before any of the money is to be 
     used. Trying to give the inspectors the "teeth" to approach violators that if they do not clean up the nuisance 
     the County will and charge them. The legal matter of entering a property. The DA is looking into an 
     administrative warrant if there is environmental issues. Judge Fauth stated to also involve the Game Warden 
     because they can enter property at any time. Went out for bids on trash clean-ups on County easements. Quote 
     for 5 miles on County Rd 403 was $8200. Judge Fauth asked Mr Steiber what is his current recommendation 
     at this time? Mr Steiber stated again about an abatement fund and Judge Fauth stated that would certainly be a 
     discussion for the next budget year. There will be more training for the deputies to learn how to handle those 
     situations. Possible lien on someones property if the County cleans up the dumping and does not get 
     reimbursed. The Court may also consider, at budget time, increasing contribution to Crime Stoppers. For a 
     public health nuisance, to have a licensed physician as a public health authority  to declare it a health hazard, 
     the County can give the property owner 2 days to clean up the problem or the County will and charge them 
     for the clean-up. Dr Blalock is interested in helping with this matter. Judge Fauth asked County Attorney 
     Megan Barcak if there needs to be a policy in place. Ms Barcak stated it is important that Mr Steiber continue 
     to seek the advice of the DA and the process from the Sheriffs Dept. Until all of that is ironed out as to how 
     the Sheriffs Dept will handle these cases and write citations, a fully comprehensive policy cannot be written at 
     this time. Commissioner Chad Mallett asked if instead of mailing the citations, could they be served to save 
     on time? There is a process in the Health and Safety code that a notice can be posted in the newspaper after 15 
     days if no response has been received. County Judge mentioned he will discuss at a round table meeting on 
     Friday with judges from surrounding counties. Tracking the complaints from start to finish is most important. 
     There is a PDF online complaint form.  
     Clean up event Saturday March 14th from 7:00 am - 3:00 pm  Tire Trailer will be at the Bedias and 
     Stoneham locations. Open top trailer will be at all locations.  

3.   Consider and take action to approve annual funding of heavy equipment. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber:County Attorney Megan Barcak stated she is good with the contract, but 
     with a financial institution they will not sign until the signatures from the County are complete. She would 
     like when the contract is approved, that the County Judge can sign anything necessary to make the contract 
     effective, and the County Attorney to give a letter that basically there is no litigation or conflict with this 
     current contract. Payments are $244,673.00 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve.annual funding of heavy equipment and authorize the County Attorney to 
     issue a letter that there is no existing conflict or lawsuit with this contract.Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

4.   Consider and take action on a resolution regarding a contract for the purpose of financing heavy equipment. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber:  
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve the resolution regarding a contract for the purpose of financing heavy 
     equipment. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

5.   Discuss liability concerns regarding subdivision design standards.  It is expected that the Court will conduct a 
     closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 (Consultation with Attorney). 
     It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 
     (Consultation with Attorney) 
     Executive session @ 9:33 am 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

6.   Discuss legal liability and potential litigation of the County.  It is expected that the Court  will conduct a 
     closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 (Consultation with attorney). 
     It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 
     (Consultation with Attorney) 
     Re-convene from Executive session @ 11:08 am 

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 4 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 11:10 AM 

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for March 10, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 
oO                                                                             RESOLUTION

                A RESOLUTION     OF   GRIMES   COUNTY,    TEXAS,   AUTHORIZING     THE  AWARD     OF  AN  ADMINISTRATIVE      SERVICE   PROVIDER
                CONTRACT    FOR  THE  COMMUNITY      DEVELOPMENT      BLOCK   GRANT   PROGRAM,    WITH   FUNDS   ALLOCATED    THROUGH     THE  U.S.
                DEPARTMENT      OF HOUSING    AND   URBAN   DEVELOPMENT      (HUD).

                WHEREAS     the  Community     Development     Block   Grant  Program    contract   requires  implementation     by  professionals
                experienced   in completion  of federally funded  administrative  services;

                WHEREAS,    in order to identify qualified and  responsive  providers for these  services a Request   for Proposals (RFP)  process
                for administration/project   delivery services has been  completed   in accordance   with GLO  requirements;

                WHEREAS    the  proposals  received  by the  due  date  have been   reviewed  to determine    the most  qualified and  responsive
                providers  for the professional service;

                NOW,   THEREFORE,    BE IT RESOLVED:

                 Section  1.       That  Cidrt-LLiet                7           be selected  to provide  GLO  application and  project-related
                                   grant  administration  services for the Community    Development    Block  Grant Program   project.

                 Section 2.        That  any   and  all contracts  or commitments     made   with   the  above-named     service provider   are
                                   dependent    on the successful  negotiation  of a contract with the service provider.


                PASSED  AND   APPROVED    ON   MARCH   10",  2026.

               APPROVED:
°              Thr                                aa
                    Fauth  Ill
               Grimes   County  Judge


               ATTEST:


                Barbara  Kimich
               Grimes   County  Clerk


                                                                                                                                               Page   3 of 3