                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                    Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Special Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on May 27, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
there was a Commissioners Court Special Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
 

Public Comments 
We look forward t hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need 
to submit a Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public 
comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person. 
Public Speakers are as follows: Jude B Stuckey - Carlos, Claire Stuckey-Carlos, Charles Rogers-Keith, Tom 
Johnson-Greater Brazos Partnership, Glenda DeWeese-Iola, Sherry Fauth-Plantersville, Harry Sherman Trumble 
III-Precinct 1, Shiara Trumble-Iola, Debra Morwood-Iola, Marie Egyed-Iola, Shawn Pulkkinen-Carlos, Karen 
Shiver-Bedias, William Graham-Anderson, Chandler Salome-Anderson, Rickie Weinkauf-Stoneham, and Jodi 
Pistler-Bedias. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

1.   Discuss and appoint a committee in accordance with the Executive Summary of Guidelines and Criteria 
     for Tax Abatements Pursuant to Texas Tax Code Chapter 312 and for Grants Pursuant to Texas Local 
     Government Code Chapter 381. It is expected that the court will conduct a closed session as authorized 
     by Texas Government Code § 551.0745 to deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, 
     reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a member of an advisory body. (Personnel Matters). 
     Grimes County Attorney Megan Barcak: County Judge Joe Fauth stated that what was set up in the 
     committee, one of the things was that each Commissioner would have the opportunity to appoint a liaison 
     representative to represent their area. The Judge states that the appointments should not be static. The reason 
     being, as projects change, the person selected for their input may not have knowledge, background or 
     information on the project at hand. The Judge would like to have flexibility that when Citizen A is appointed 
     for this one, the next project there is the option to pick Citizen B. Ms Barcak stated the guidelines do allow      that once a committee is appointed, the Commissioners Court is able to make a change. It will need to be put 
     back on the agenda to request their person be changed. The point of the static committee was that when things 
     start moving, there would be a group in place to start having a conversation. Whereas that did not exist 
     before. There is language in there that anyone that wants to bring up a change on the committee has to go 
     back before Commissioners Court.  
     Precinct 1 Commissioner Chad Mallett appoints Ben Leman. 
     Pct 2 Commissioner David Tullos appoints Tommy Thompson 
     Pct 3 Commissioner Michael Raska appoints Randy Peters 
     Pct 4 Commissioner Phillip Cox appoints Bert Miller 
     Grimes County Business Person appointed  
     Grimes County Employee appointed County Auditor Jessi Murphy  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve 5 appointees to the committee. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 
     Judge Fauth stated there will be no action taken on appointing a Grimes County business person to the 
     committee. The Judge has nominated Majad Noori, but his appointment can be brought up on a later agenda 
     and if there are any other nominees to submit, the decision can be made at that time. Judge Fauth asked if they 
     were all in agreement on the County Employee being a flexible person, whoever is best suited. Pct 1 
     Commissioner Chad Mallet asked what is required to establish the committee. Do all positions have to be 
     named? Ms Barcak stated she would have to read specifically if that is what the Court wants to do. Mr Mallett 
     states that the Auditor would be recommended for all potential abatement requests. The County Engineer or 
     Facilities Director or both could be brought in on any of them as far as the committee goes. Ms Barcak stated 
     yes, as long as it doesn't run a fowl with an open meetings act such as another Commissioner. If they want to 
     pull in someone with subject matter or a specific expertise. Commissioner Mallet stated a committee should 
     be established now and would include a business owner. The Court would go with Judge Fauth's 
     recommendation, for now. 
     2nd Motion by Judge Joe Fauth to add permanent fixtures to the committee of Majad Noori and also County 
     Auditor Jessi Murphy. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
     Before the vote, Commissioner Tullos stated he would still want to have a brief conversation with Mr. Noori.  
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

2.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to 
     Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or 
     financial information that the Commissioners Court has received from Space Exploration Technologies 
     Corp. The Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations and will deliberate 
     an offer of financial or other incentive to the business prospect of a multi-phase, next-generation, 
     vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility, 
     proposed to be located at the Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas. 
     EXECUTIVE SESSION: the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to 
     Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial 
     information that the Commissioners Court has received from Space Exploration Technologies Corp. The 
     Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations and will deliberate an offer of 
     financial or other incentive to the business prospect of a multi-phase, next-generation, vertically integrated 
     semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility, proposed to be located at the 
     Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas. 
     Court convened 9:44 am 
     Re-Convene 11:44 am  
     No decisions were made other than outside counsel will continue negotiations with Space Ex 

3.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive      session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss commercial or financial 
     information that the Commissioners Court has received from a business prospect that the Commissioners 
     Court seeks to have locate, stay, or expand within the County in the Navasota Industrial Park and with 
     which the Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations, and to deliberate the 
     offer of a financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed manufacturing facility for heat-
     transfer equipment and thermal-management systems for cooling, refrigeration, and industrial 
     processing applications. 
     EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session 
     pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss commercial or financial information 
     that the Commissioners Court has received from a business prospect that the Commissioners Court seeks to 
     have locate, stay or expand within the County in the Navasota Industrial Park and with which the 
     Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations, and to deliberate the offer of a 
     financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed manufacturing facility for heat-transfer 
     equipment and thermal-management systems for cooling, refrigeration and industrial processing applications. 
     No action has been taken. The Committee was formed and the Committee will be called together to move 
      forward on discussion on agenda item 3.  

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
Pct 2 Commissioner Tullos exited the meeting at 11:16 am 
In Favor: 4 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 11:55 AM 

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for May 27, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 