Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Amended Budget Meeting are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on July 27, 2026 at 9:00 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Amended Budget Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes
County Justice Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III

1. Discuss and review the Grimes County FY 2027 departmental budget requests. Jt is expected that the Court
will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the
appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or
employee).

County Judge Joe Fauth stated to all presenting their budgets that in his proposed budget he has put a $4.00/hr
raise for all employees.

Discussion was held regarding proposed figures with Voters and Elections Administrator Rachel Walker:

Not much changed to the proposed budget. An additional employee has not been added to the Elections
budget. The Court is keeping a list of departments that are requesting additional employees and will
determine at a later time which departments will receive the additional employee. Judge Fauth suggested a
possible solution would be to bring in a full-time person and a part-time person prior to elections. Some line
items may change depending on the decision of the additional early voting locations.

Diiscussion was held regarding proposed figures with Grimes County Precinct 2 Justice of the Peace Lester
Underwood:

Discussion was held regarding proposed figures with Grimes County Precinct 2 Constable Blake Jarvis:
Requesting 2 new vehicles but can get by with | vehicle. The cost of a vehicle would be approximately
$105,000 outfitted. The grant was received to fund 2 new radios and one handheld radio. This would reduce
the amount of outfitting a new vehicle by approximately $10,000.

Discussion was held regarding proposed figures with Veterans Services Jay Lafferty:

Mrr. Lafferty works 20 hours per week. $600 in Advertisement and Legal Notices. Ads are put in the paper
for Veterans Day, Memorial Day and asking to add Fourth of July. This would need to increase to $900.
Commissioner Tullos suggested using social media.

Discussion was held regarding proposed figures with Department of Public Safety Officer Sgt Jason
Dominguez:

Judge Fauth asked if there has been any indication of expanding services at the Grimes County office. Sgt
Dominguez answered not at this time. This office houses 6 troopers with room for 4 additional troopers.

This meeting was Discussion only; No Formal Action, Order or vote was taken by the Court

Adjourn
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox.

In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0

Motion

Meeting adjourned at 10:57 AM

Motion by David Tullos to Re-Open the meeting to verify numbers with the Auditor. Seconded by Chad
Mallett.

In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0

Motion

Meeting re-opened at 11:02 AM

Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox.

In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0

Motion

Meeting adjourned at 11:06 AM

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for July 27, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas