                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                   Wednesday, October 7, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and approve the replat for The Cedars Section 1 block 3 lot 10 and 11 located in Precinct 2. 

 2.   Consider and approve the replat for Foster Estates section 1 block 3 Lot 9 located in Precinct 4. 

 3.   Consider and approve the resolutions, plans, policies, and proclamations in support of the Resilient Communities Program 
      grant projects - GLO CDBG-MIT Contract Number 23-160-115-F264. 

 4.   Discuss and take action to approve a professional services contract with HR Green for pipeline permitting and inspection 
      services, no cost to Grimes County. 

 5.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for August 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, 
      in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 7.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 8.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 9.   Human Resources, IT, Elections 
Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

10.  County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
     Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Texas A&M AgriLife Extension (JF) 

11.  Presentation and approval of National 4-H Week Proclamation. 

Focusing Families - Hilda Martinez (JF) 

12.  Presentation and approval of the Proclamation designating the month of October 2026 as Domestic Violence Awareness Month 
     and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Wells (DT) 

13.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to act on paying an electrician to install a temporary power pole 
     at the museum in the park. 

14.  Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to provide meals to attendees of the GCHC sponsored regional 
     event. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

15.  Consider and take action to approve the use of Election contract surplus funds to purchase office furniture. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

16.  Discuss and approve the FY'27 ILA between Montgomery County, Texas and Grimes County, Texas. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF/PC) 

17.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

18.  Discuss and take action to authorize the Grimes County Maintenance Department to issue a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) 
     for professional services related to the Grimes County Jail Expansion/Renovation project. 

19.  Discuss and take action to donate the use of the Main Hall to Midsouth for the KBTX food for families food drive on 
     Wednesday December 2, 2026. 

20.  Discuss and take action to accept changes to the rental agreement for Grimes County Expo Center and Fairgrounds. 

Grimes County EMC/Fire Marshal - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

21.  Consider and take action to approve the 2026-2027 firefighting services contracts with Anderson, Iola, Bedias, Richards, Shiro, 
     Plantersville, Whitehall and Todd Mission Volunteer Fire Departments and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

22.  Consider and take action to approve the 2026-2027 contract for the Grimes County Emergency Medical First Responders, Inc., 
     and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

23.  Consider and take action on accepting changes to Grimes County Volunteer Fire Departments and Sheriff Office 
     Communication Standard Operating Guidelines. 

Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (JF) 
 24.  Review and accept the Grimes County Treasurer Cash Count Audit report completed 9/3/2026. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 25.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Current Burn Ban ordered 
      August 19, 2026, expiring November 17, 2026.) 

 26.  Consider and take action to approve Contract for Services with Bedias Creek Soil & Water Conservation District #428 and 
      authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 27.  Discuss and take action to approve the Interlocal Agreement between Grimes County and the City of Navasota for Free Use of 
      the Navasota Library and Its Facilities by Grimes County Residents Residing Outside of the Corporate Limits of the City of 
      Navasota, and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

 28.  Discuss and take action to authorize the purchase mowing equipment using fund balance. It is expected that the Court will 
      conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 (Consultation with Attorney). 

 Grimes County Human Resources Director - Atina Adair (JF) 

 29.  Discuss, consider and take action on personnel matters for new Grimes County Sheriff's Office employee. It is expected that 
      the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 09/30/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 