Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Special Meeting are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on July 27, 2026 at 11:30 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Special Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III

1. Discuss and take action on Grimes County Capital Projects, to include the County Jail and other areas of
concern.
Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth stated the reason this Special Meeting was called is that there are a number of
capital projects that need to be addressed. This meeting will help to prioritize these projects. Grimes County
Facilities Director Rodney Floyd would like to know the priorities before he presents his budget on
Wednesday, July 29th. Mr Floyd provided the Court a list of 11 security concerns and upgrades for the JP1
Building in Iola. Also, a list of 10 security priorities for JP Court 3-4 in Navasota. Mr Floyd stated that at this
time of year his department does an evaluation of the county's buildings to come up with a project list for the
Court to decide what are the most urgent needs. Signage, ballistic resistant materials, key cards, public
restroom, and electrical upgrades are the most urgent in the JP1 building. Grimes Coutny Precinct 1 Justice of
the Peace Chris Acord reiterated the needs in his office. Especially the need of a public restroom. The
expansion of JP1 would run approximately $1.4 million. The cost of an architect is 10% of the total build
out.
JP 3-4 building has many issues. One option is to relocate to the Fairgrounds Go Texan building or to
refurbish the existing building. The Navasota Annex has been added onto 3 times so the foundations do not
line up. Plumbing issues due to foundation sinking. The septic is retro-fitted after City services. Exterior walls
on the interior so AC cannot be serviced properly. Cinder block walls that go through the roof making it
impossible for IT to run conduit for cameras. The Go Texan building is currently 2400 sq ft. To house
AgriLife, the Constables, JP 3-4 and Commissioners, the proposal is 8000 to 10,000 sq ft and use the
courtroom as a mufti purpose for small events such as showers or gatherings of 75 people or less. Navasota
Annex is 7800 sq ft. Judge Fauth asked about Juvenile Probation. Mr Floyd stated he would have to look into

that more extensively due to indiscreet entrances into the building. It is possible to refurbish the existing
building at a minimal cost to house just Juvenile Probation. They could be moved up front where the facilities
work properly. Approximate cost for the Go Texan rebuild, if 8000 to 10,000 sq ft., is $2.8 to $3.5 million.
Judge Fauth asked if there are some emergency fixes that need to be addressed now with the JP 3/4 building.
Mr Floyd stated more security, the back restrooms and the foundation. Approximately $220,000 to fix the
foundation. Mr Floyd found the quote from Olshan for repair of the foundation which was $337,712.94.
Judge Fauth asked Mr Floyd what would be his best estimate in repairs to continue to use the Navasota
Annex building for another 4 years. Mr Floyd stated best guess is $750,000. Commissioner Cox stated the
Constable and Commissioner can relocate to the hospital where there is space available. Other projects:
Justice Center, HR Office would like to add a work room/conference room. $21,670. County Clerk's office
would like to shrink the EO office and create an extra office for the Sr Court Clerk. $31,940. County Court at
Law would like a patio with a secure area if a defendant has to be taken out of the courtroom.$55,000.A lot of
this arrangement will change with the new design of the jail. The use of the hallway when defendants are
taken into custody in court is in question. Sheriff Sowell is going to ask the Jail Commission for a variance to
use the hallway in lieu of taking the defendant outside the building to the Sallyport, with the understanding
that when the new jail is built, the variance would no longer be needed. Other projects for the future as the
County grows. 11,000 sq ft expansion of the Justice Center for larger meeting room and jury selection room.
The Justice Center Annex will need more parking area with the jail expansion, equipment will need to move
away from the sheriffs department. Road department meets here in the mornings and pick up their work
trucks from the Annex. Bullet proof glass and signage for JP2. Jail expansion or rebuild. Were able to get in
the ground penetrating radar as well as the initial inspection. The administrative side had voids underneath the
slab as well as some moisture. By initial results, it appears it will be less expensive to rebuild that portion of
the jail. Will have to wait for the engineer to approve 5" of concrete slab is enough to hold the weight of the
walls. Mr Floyd states that the Court needs to decide which process for expansion as there are approximately
5 different processes. Judge Fauth stated the county has used the design build process on the Annex. It makes
sense that whoever designs the building, if there is a problem with the build they would have to resolve it.
The Judge states that staying at 111 beds, we are almost near capacity. Jail Standards is in the process of
another review as to where they feel the County will be as far as the capacity needed. Judge Fauth has stated
that a larger bed capacity, the County could rent to other counties that are needing to house their overflow of
inmates. Discussion about the minimum and maximum amount of additional beds for RFQ's. Some
construction companies may not want to bid a project on the minimum side but would prefer the maximum or
vice versa. Commissioner Tullos asked if the RFQ's can be put together with these parameters and get
proposals back for the Court to have a range of the low and the high. Mr Floyd stated yes and include the
estimated values. Commissioner Cox asked Mr Floyd if he felt comfortable writing the RFQ? Mr Floyd stated
he believed the committee could come together and do so. Commissioner Tullos asked the Chief Deputy if
she would like to weigh in on the parameters. Chief Deputy Smith stated that the growth of the county is
already here. She also stated that the County needs to be focused on the pay for jail staff to keep them from
leaving. Chief Deputy Smith believes the 192 bed addition to 288 range.

Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve the Jail Committee to seek RFQ's for construction of a new Jail facility
with a range of 192 minimum to 288 bed availability with the money for advertising coming from fund 49
Capital Projects and allow the Auditor to make those adjustments. Seconded by Michael Raska.

In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0

Motion Passed

Mr Floyd asked if the Court has a priority list of the other capital projects submitted. There will not be a
remodel of County Court at Law pending the design of the new jail. Considering the County Clerk's office
remodel. Commissioner Tullos is not in favor of the remodel for HR. Commissioner Mallett stated the
importance of the safety issues at the JP1 office. Capital projects will be re-visited on the day Mr Floyd
presents his budget.

Adjourn
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Chad Mallett.

In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0
Motion Passed

Meeting was adjourned at 1:23 PM

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for July 27, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas