                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                    Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on June 17, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
there was a Commissioners Court Regular Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
 
Absent: 
 

Invocation 
Invocation led by Charles Thompkins, Sr Pastor at the House of Blessings and Miracles in Navasota, Texas.  

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will 
need to submit a Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public 
comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person.  
2 Public Speakers: Karen Shiver and Debra Morwood. 

Consent Agenda Items 
Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve Consent Agenda Items 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 and 9. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 

1.   Consider and approve the replat of Dartmouth Estates tracts 9 and 10 located in Precinct 1. 

2.   Consider and approve the replat of Country Town Estates Subdivision Lot 78 located in Precinct 1. 3.   Consider and approve the replat of West Magnolia Forest, section 13, Lots 2 and 3 located in Precinct 4. 

4.   Consider and approve the replat for West Magnolia Forest, Section 16 lots 40 and 41 located in Precinct 2. 

5.   Receive Internal Audit Report of Justice of the Peace Pct. 3 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI 
     January 1, 2025 - December 31, 2025. 

6.   Receive Internal Audit Report of the Justice of the Peace Pct. 3 - Monthly Bank Reconciliations and OMNI 
     January 2026 - March 2026. 

7.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

8.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

9.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Employee Service Awards. 

10.  Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
      
     5 YEARS 
     Richard Gore 
      
     10 YEARS 
     Rolando West 
     Recognition of Employees: Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber presents a 5-Year Service Award to Richard 
     Gore. Mr Steiber also presents a 10 year Service Award to Rolando West.  

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

11.  Human Resources, IT, Elections, Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 
     Human Resource Director Atina Adair: Current openings. SO (1) Dispatcher, (2) Jailers, Patrol Deputies (4). 
      Road Department (1) Light Equipment and (1) Operator. Interviews are being conducted, utilizing the temp 
     service approved by Commissioners Court. 
     IT Director Gregg Cannon: The system is stable with 99.81 uptime, which is approximately 11 minutes' 
     downtime out of 43,000. All desktops migrated to Windows 11. Cybersecurity blocked 30,000 emails. 90% 
     patch compliant. All 6 core servers are operating @ 99%. Storage utilization is creeping up. Currently, at 
     70.5% capacity. When 75% is reached, it will slow down the F Drive. When 90% capacity is reached, 
     everything shuts off. It is anticipated to hit capacity sometime in November/December. Judge Fauth asked if 
     this was due to duplication of data. Mr Cannon stated it is mainly from body cam footage, and cameras, 
     which is data that cannot be compressed. Camera system was up 99%. SanSara is completely rolled out and 
     Azure backup has been canceled, which will save the county money. Mr Cannon stated that due to the 
     number of Data Centers being built, it has created a shortage of chips, which has caused a significant rise in 
     the cost of electronics. Drives that were costing $300 are now $1600. The rollout of multifactor authentication 
     is still on schedule for Oct 1st. This will require that every time you sign in to your computer, a code will be 
     sent to your phone before you can log in.  
     Veteran Services Jay Lafferty: Month of May 8 phone conversations, 12 office visits and 3 emails. Started 3 
     new claims and a higher level review. This is where someone has been denied part or all of their original 
     claim. This allows them to submit new evidence to support their claim. The banner was up during the County 
     fair. Judge Fauth asked Mr Lafferty once a claim is started, how long does it normally take to hear the 
     decision. Mr Lafferty stated it could be a few months to a few years.  
     Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: No calls out for Emergency Management 
     Services. The majority of the rainfall missed Grimes County. Passed and Commissioned with the Texas Fire 
     Commission for plant examiner, inspector and educator. Completed the course work for the investigator and 
     will have to do state testing, which should be completed within 2 months. Ms Bumpous was voted in as the      Assistant Chair for HSAC (Homeland Security Advisory Council). LEPC will meet again in July. Ms 
     Bumpous has reached out to all the industries in the county which have tier 2 reports, which are hazardous 
     materials. Fifteen have confirmed to attend the meeting, which are new facilities that have not been a part of 
     previous meetings. This is to bring more people with this specific expertise into the county.  

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

12.  County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, 
     Elections, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of 
     Commerce, Bluebonnet Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory 
     Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth: Report from elections have wrapped up the run-off election. The canvas was 
     conducted as appropriate and the election is final as far as the county is concerned and documentation sent to 
     the state. Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce was at Navasota LP Gas celebrating its 80th 
     birthday. 
     Precinct 2 Commissioner David Tullos: Nothing to report 
     Precinct 3 Commissioner Michael Raska: Nothing to report 
     Precinct 4 Commissioner Phillip Cox: Ambulance service is at level zero due to an increase in ambulance 
     services. No eta on delivery of new ambulances.  

Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Agents  

13.  Quarterly Interpretation. 
     Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Agent Matt Pfeifer:  Some highlights to report. OD Butler Forage Field Day 
     on May 15th. Demonstrations and learned prevention and treatment of the New World Screwworm. Also, 
     heard speakers on current challenges with pasture mealybugs. Around June 1st, Mr Pfeifer received a text 
     message about pasture mealybugs, and it has been confirmed some were found in Grimes County. There is no 
     approved insecticide that can be used but the Extension office at the State level is working on getting EPA 
     approval on some off-label chemicals that have shown some results. The Grimes County Fair should yield 
     one million dollars after add-ons. Successful State 4-H Roundup with 6 Grimes County members competing. 
     The partnership with Highpoint Elementary "Learn, Grow, Eat and Go", AgriLife and Master Gardeners 
     promotes plants, gardening, healthy living and exercise.  An agricultural education event called Ag Day was 
     hosted by Grimes County Farm Bureau for 273 4th graders. The Master Gardeners wrapped up their 
     internship class with 14 new interns.  
     Carla Haves: Health and Wellness programs to educate participants on prevention strategies for chronic 
     disease management, such as healthy heart series, a fitness class, diabetes workshop and healthy living. Food 
     and Nutrition workshops with nutrition-based learning experiences to make eating healthy enjoyable and 
     educational. Learning safe food preservation methods in Canning workshops. Grimes County Senior Day at 
     the Fair had 200 attendees and 21 vendors. Ms Haves has received certification in CPR and First Aid and a 
     Texas Food Handlers certification. She is starting a youth summer cooking class in Bedias. If any kids are 
     interested, contact Mayor Guinn to get registered. A free Mental Health conference at Prairie View from 9 to 
     4 with guest speakers. Back to school for Navasota is August 4th and August 5th in Plantersville with 
     Commissioner Tullos.  
     Matt Pfeifer: Upcoming Ag Programs are Grimes/Madison Feral Hog Program planned for August 13th at the 
     Grimes County Fairgrounds and Expo Center. Grimes County Agricultural Business Program for input from 
     community partnersto help direct plans for an agricultural business educational program. 

Grimes County Human Resources Director - Atina Adair (PC) 14.  Review, consider and take action on 2026-2027 Renewal Notice and Benefit Confirmation provided by Texas 
     Association of Counties (TAC) for County employee health, dental and vision benefits. 
     Grimes County Human Resources Director Atina Adair: Employee benefits consultant for Grimes County, 
     Hailey Gajewski discussing options for renewal of health insurance. Ms Adairs reccomendation is Plan 1300-
     NG 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to stay with the TAC insurance provider moving forward wth Option Two 
     (2)  with increases along the way Plan 1300-NG, Rx-4A-NG. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF/PC) 

15.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: Fair issues, breaker problems in one of the barns and at the 
     new camper spots there is a main breaker overloaded. A total attendance of approximately 5000 people, 220 
     exhibitors, the Premium Sale brought in $762,396.36. Total sales with add-ons were $1,202,241.90. Total 
     scholarships given out $18,000. All rodeo events went on as planned. Other events were cattle shows and a 
     food pantry. Regular maintenance consists of 2 HVAC systems replacing one at the jail and one at the Go 
     Texan Building.  

16.  Discuss and take action to auction surplus items. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: With IT converting desktops over, there are 33 desktops, 14 
     Laptops and 2 Printers to auction.  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve to auction surplus items. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

17.  Discuss and take any necessary action on the presentation of the Jail Building Committee's research and 
     recommendations. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: A building committee was established to investigate the 
     possible expansion of the jail. The committee went on field trips to see other facilities that have been re-done. 
     Also, to a manufacturing facility that builds pods. Construction and financial experts were consulted. All 
     information was sent in a packet to the Court. The best will be a design build, the best construction will be 
     brick and mortar, the best financing option will be CO's and believe the jail needs the expansion, but not sure 
     how many additional beds. Precinct 1 Commissioner Chad Mallett asked if there was consideration of a step-
     by-step expansion to achieve the ultimate goal. Mr Floyd agreed with the design build process that could be 
     achieved, but does not have a way to divide the steps without a team in place. A design team would need to 
     be chosen and then there could be an actual construction plan. Also, reservations due to some of the concrete 
     that was found while doing repairs there might not be an architect's signature because of lack of infrastructure 
     in the current building. If an architect is not willing to sign off on the foundation, the dollar figure could 
     increase by $30 million. Until certifications are received, we cannot be sure of the cost. Commissioner Mallett 
     stated that a construction method would need to be approved and the initial dollars in order for a company to 
     go from there. Mr Floyd stated getting a team in place to inspect so we know what to post in the newspaper 
     how large or small of a project this will be. A dollar range would need to be posted, so a company would 
     know if they wanted to submit their qualifications on a project that has the potential to be a large project. 
     Judge Fauth asked if a range of the number of beds for the new jail could be posted as well, to show the size 
     of the project. Mr Floyd stated that he believes a special agenda should be set to discuss the jail and all other 
     facilities in more depth. As far as the urgency of the jail project, the capacity of the jail is 111. Anything 
     above that, the inmates have to be housed at another facility at the cost of $100 per day. It is not in the budget 
     to do so. Mr Floyd stated $250,000 was put in this year's budget to repair the foundation on the administrative 
     side of the jail. The committee decided it would be more beneficial to use this money to get the process      started to mve forward with architecture and testing. A hold was put on that money for the repairs, but why go 
     forward with these repairs when the architect will not put a certification on the jail as a whole? The money 
     was not well spent. Commissioner Cox asked what the anticipated occupancy would be. Mr Floyd stated at 
     least 32 months. Commissioner Cox asked how long would these numbers sustain our population? Mr Floyd 
     stated the Jail Commission is where the 33 beds stemmed from, and their prediction is that would last 15 
     years. These numbers are pre-conversations of the industries moving into the county. Commissioner Cox 
     asked Mr Floyd to have the Jail Commission re-run the numbers. Commissioner Mallett also asked if a 
     foundation evaluation could be done prior to the Court making a decision on how to move forward. Judge 
     Fauth asked if the process of the foundation evaluation and posting in the paper could be done 
     simultaneously? Mr Floyd stated it would be better to have the evaluation done first so it could become part 
     of the qualifications' packet for architects to decide if they would be willing to work with the remodel of the 
     existing jail. County Auditor Jessi Murphy stated the structural analysis will have to do the RFQ's as Rodney 
     mentioned. There is $250,000 budgeted for the slab work, but there is also $85,000 in the architect line in 
     capital 149. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve to send out an RFQ for foundation and structural analysis of the jail. 
     Seconded by David Tullos. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

18.  Discuss and take any necessary action pertaining to the damage which occurred at the Grimes County 
     Historical Courthouse on May 12, 2026.. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: An 18-wheeler took out the steps on the ADA side of the 
     Historical Courthouse. Concrete is up and the week of 6/29 to paint. Mr Floyd is asking Court do we pay for 
     it out right or file on insurance. County Auditor Jessi Murphy stated anything that happens must be reported 
     to TAC. Conflicting information is right now, it is sitting as a claim but has been told to Mr Floyd it is sitting 
     as a report. Trying to get clarification as the exact status.  Ms Murphy stated it would not make sense to claim 
     it on insurance if our deductible is $25,000 and the cost is going to be around $25,000 and risk our premiums 
     going up. Commissioner Cox stated that information from the agenda packet, this was a hit-and-run. Mr 
     Floyd stated the county spends an average of $6000 making repairs each year on dings and scrapes around the 
     courthouse. Ms Murphy is asking the Court to give her guidance when clarification is received from TAC do 
     they want to proceed as a claim or a report.  
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to proceed to pay for this as a report and not as a claim and ask that the 
     funds be taken out of fund balance as this was an unforeseen emergency. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
     Ms Murphy made the court aware there is $92,000 in the contingency fund. 
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

19.  Discuss and take possible action regarding facility improvements and related costs under the agreement 
     between Grimes County and CHI St. Joseph Health. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: Mr Floyd attended a meeting with the maintenance team at 
     CHI St Joesphs. They alerted Commissioner Cox and Mr Floyd approximately 3 months ago, concerning a 
     chiller repair located on the 3rd floor, so there was crane work involved. The county has received the bill as 
     their invoice.  All the work was almost completed and was done correctly. Toured the facility observing the 
     new flooring, and plans for next year. They submitted their budget numbers. Contractually, the county is 
     obligated to half the invoice. The county expended their typical budgeted numbers on the generator 
     replacement the county has been working on for four years. The county's part of the invoice is $55,893.50 Ms 
     Murphy stated there is enough in fund balance and non-departmental contingency. Commissioner Cox asked 
     removing the money from which fund puts the county in a better position. Ms Murphy stated, from her 
     perspective, it would be non-departmental contingency because when mid-year changes are made to the 
     budget for unforeseen emergencies, it qualifies to come from the reserves.  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve $55,893.50 from the non-departmental contingency line item to reimburse 
     our portion of the contractural obligation between CHI St Joseph Health Center and Grimes County.      Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber 

20.  Road Department Report. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber: Base repair in 9 locations, pothole repair in 11 locations, tree removal 
     and clean up in 34 locations, boom mowing, hauling base, ditch work and culvert installation. Received 96 
     permit applications in May. Based on OSSF we are still averaging one new home per day being built. 27 new 
     addresses issued in May. All Clover Point of Sale systems have been installed at the solid waste collection 
     sites. Environmental received 502 maintenance inspection reports, processed 133 maintenance tracking fee 
     invoices. Working to bring properties with expired maintenance contracts into compliance. Attended 16th 
     Annual Harris County Onsite Wastewater Seminar on May 14th. Under Grants, discussions have been made 
     with 2 out of the 3 property owners on the County Road 409 bridge project. After offers are made and waiting 
     for the 3rd property owner, a recommendation will be brought back before the Court. There are some 
     significant funding challenges with some of these projects which will be discussed in the 27 budget hearings. 
     Commissioner Tullos asked if there are any reasons for the delays in moving forward on the construction of 
     the TawneyBerry aspect of the GLO MIT-MOD 409 project? Mr Steiber stated his thoughts were to see what 
     both projects were going to cost, so if the county has to come up with additional funds, how to execute both 
     projects if any of the work can be done in-house. Commissioner Tullos stated the project is to improve a 
     school bus route. Commissioner Tullos also wanted to discuss from the May meeting, in the Road Dept. 
     report, the approval of the reconfiguration of the Road Dept where a construction and maintenance 
     superintendent were appointed. It was requested at that time who the individuals would be heading up these 2 
     configurations, but Commissioner Tullos is still not aware who these individuals are. Mr Steiber stated that 
      Jay Law is the construction superintendent and Patrick Shimshack is the maintenance superintendent. 

21.  Discuss and take action to approve a sole-source procurement from vendor Base-Seal International, Inc. for 
     Base-Seal Concentrate Liquid Soil Stabilizer. 
     Grimes County Engineer Jon Steiber: Base-Seal Concentrate Liquid Soil Stabilizer located in Grimes County 
     and manufactured in Houston. Plans to use Base-Seal on a project this summer. The Road Dept is using many 
     different products to see what will work the best for the money.  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve a sole-source procurement from vendor Seal-Base International, Inc. for 
     Base-Seal Concentrate Liquid Stabilizer. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

22.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently 
     under a burn ban order.) 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth: Regarding the burn ban. There will not be any consideration of placing a 
     burn ban on at this time. 
     No action taken. 

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

23.  Discuss and take action to adopt the International Fire Code 2024 with Addendum and Appendices B, C, D, 
     F, H, I, J, K, L, N, and Q. 
     Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: Ms Bumpous stated she 
     would like to take out of the code and replace with 105.1.2 Types of Permits. As doing the fee schedule and      talking to surrounding counties, this will pull some of the language out of the code, giving better clarification 
     and not causing as much confusion as people are trying to figure out what permits they will have to get. This 
     will replace the current 105.1.2 and also remove, if approved, with this verbiage it will remove 105.5 and 
     105.6 with those permits that are listed below them. Commissioner Tullos stated that the change removes 
     Operational Permits.His example was the carnival that was at the Fairgrounds. Would they not have to have a 
     permit? Ms Bumpous stated the Operational Permits will not be enforced. Commissioner Tullos asked how 
     does it effect Fireworks stands. Ms Bumpous said they are on the fee schedule.  
     Before the vote Commissioner Tullos had a couple of questions. He asked Ms Bumpous as we move forward 
     and see the need to establish permits, which will be permitted underneath the code, but do not have them at 
     that time? How does she envision the process? Will there be periodic evaluations and then come to the Court 
     and request to adopt additional permits? Ms Bumpous states that is exactly what will happen. Mr Tullos asked 
     that the verbiage be proofed as there are some inconsistencies, just to make sure it is technically precise.  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve to adopt the International Fire Code 2024 with addendum and appendices 
     B,C,D,F,H,I,J,K.L.N,Q and the edit for 105.1.2 and allow the County Judge as signatory. Seconded by Chad 
     Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

24.  Discuss and take action to establish a fire marshal's office in accordance with Local Government Code 
     352.011. 
     Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: The creation of the office per 
     the state code requires that Commissioners Court establish the Fire Marshal's office. Judge Fauth asked where 
     Ms Bumpous stands on her certifications? According to the State Fire Marshal's office, the government code 
     does not require any certifications. However, Ms Bumpous does have plant examiner, inspector, life and fire 
     safety education. Completed the course in investigations and have to test out for that. One class left for the 
     fire Marshal itself for the State Fire Commission. Before the vote, County Auditor Jessi Murphy wanted to 
     make the Court aware of the financial impacts of creating this office. With the need to hire another person and 
     possibly 2 people resulting in $130,000 in addition to the budget. Ms Murphy asked Ms Bumpous if she 
     would need to have the Court approve a mid-year position. She answered no she would be able to manage 
     until the end of this budget year.  
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve to establish a Fire Marshal's office. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

25.  Discuss and take action to establish the term of office for a county fire marshal in accordance with Local 
     Government Code 352.011. 
     Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: Same Government Coded 
     352.011 Commissioners Court shall establish the term of County Fire Marshal not to exceed 2 years. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve to establish the term of office for a county fire marshal in accordance 
     with Local Government Code 352.011 effective immediately through September 30, 2027. Seconded by 
     Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

26.  Discuss and take action to appoint a fire marshal and set the required bond amount. It is expected that 
     Commissioners Court will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code Section 
     551.074 to deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal 
     of a public officer or employee.  
     Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous:  The employee being      discussed has not required executive session. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to appoint Dione Bumpous as the fire marshal for Grimes County and set the 
     bond amount consistent with the Commissioners at $10,000. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

27.  Consider and take action to change the name of Emergency Management Services to Office of Emergency 
     Management and Fire Marshal. 
     Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: This is how most counties 
     with a dual office restructure the name of the office.  
     Motion by Michael Raska to Approve to change the name of the Emergency Management Services to Office 
     of Emergency Management and Fire Marshal. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

28.  Consider and take action to approve contract for FireInspection360 Software. 
     Grimes County Emergency Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: Earlier in the year Ms Bumpous came 
     before the Court with ESO software with issues on increase in payment, some regulations and the changing of 
     the sales person quite frequently. FireInspection 360 not only allows our office to continue looking at where 
     we are at in reviews and a public portal that allows the county to submit their plans, request permits and pay 
     online. Can also see what developments are happening within the county.  Base FireInspection 360 Software 
     $5200 per year with Module Add-On $700 per year.This software is in IT's budget. 
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve contract for FireInspection 360 Software. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
     Commissioner Cox made the motion based on the County Attorney's approval of the contract. The County 
     Attorney stated she looked over the contract and the changes were agreed upon. 
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
      Motion Passed 

29.  Discuss and take action on proposed Fire Marshal Fee Schedule. 
     Grimes County Emergency Management Coordinator Dione Bumpous: Researching surrounding counties, the 
     fees are in line with other counties. Ms Bumpous stated one change she would like to make would be the Fire 
     Lane Review. This would fall under the Road Department with their permitting. Conversations with Mr 
     Steiber, he believes it would be better to leave it in his department so as to get approvals for ground work as 
     they are getting approvals for their fire life safety codes for their buildings through her office. Judge Fauth 
     asked the County Auditor where would these funds when collected go, and would they be restricted? Ms 
     Murphy stated she has not looked at the codes, but new revenue accounts would have to be set up. She also 
     stated if they anticipate receiving these fees immediately, then new accounts would be created mid-year. and 
     bring it before Court.  
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve the proposed Fire Marshal Fee Schedule. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

30.  Discuss and take action to adjust the list price on 7.582 Acres located at 203 Veterans Memorial Drive, 
     Navasota, TX 77868. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to 
     Texas Government Code § 551.072 (deliberate the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property). 
     Grimes County Attorney Megan Barcak:       It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code § 
     551.072 (deliberate the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property) 
     Court convened 
     Court re-convened at 11:29 am 
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve to remove 7.582 acres located at 203 Veterans Memorial Drive, 
     Navasota, Tx 77868 from the market until further notice. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 
      

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned  

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for June 17, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 9. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:       
Item Type:          
Agenda Section:    Consent Agenda Items 
Subject:           Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    BA - 1 - 061726.SO.02 
2.    BA - 2 - 061726.JAIL 
3.    LIT - 1 - 061726.506TH 
4.    LIT - 2 - 061726.CCRT_ 
5.    LIT - 3 - 061726.CCL.02 
6.    LIT - 4 - 061726.CO.ATTY 
7.    LIT - 5 - 061726.JAIL 
8.    LIT - 6 - 061726.RB 
9.    LIT - 7 - 061726.911ADD 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 19. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:      Phillip Cox 
Item Type:         Action Item 
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF/PC) 
Subject:           Discuss and take possible action regarding facility improvements and related costs under the 
                   agreement between Grimes County and CHI St. Joseph Health. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    R FLOYD - hospital 20260610081000312 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 20. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:       
Item Type:          
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber 
Subject:           Road Department Report. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    20260617 Road Department Report 
        GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 6/17/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

   THE GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT OPERATES UNDER THE COUNTY ROAD SYSTEM ADOPTED AUGUST 14TH, 1999 
                PURSUANT TO TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE CHAPTER 252, SUBCHAPTER D. 
            SUBCHAPTERS A & B ROAD COMMISSIONER SYSTEMS DO NOT APPLY IN GRIMES COUNTY. 
                                         
 ROAD RESOURCES ARE ALLOCATED COUNTYWIDE BY THE ROAD DEPARTMENT.  PLEASE DIRECT ALL ROAD-RELATED REQUESTS 
    TO THE GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT AT 936-873-4436 OR GRIMESCOUNTYTEXAS.GOV/ROAD-DEPARTMENT. 
                                        
Road & Bridge: 
 
Base repair:  
CR 146, 162 W., 180, 211, 215 E., 229 235, 323N., Pinebrook Subdivision.  
 
Pothole Patching:  
CR 172, 174, 180, 185, 192, 204N., 302, 304, 309, Ada Oaks and Clark Rd.  
 
Tree Removal/Tree Clean Up:  
CR 102, 115, 117, 123, 124, 125, 130, 132, 146, 162 E., 162 W., 164, 173, 179, 180, 188, 188, 220, 227 E., 
232, 234, 302, 308, 320, 321, 323, 324, 325, 403, 405, Red Bud, Pinebrook, Pine Lane, Terra Buena.      
 
Boom Mowing:  
CR 314, 330, Town of Courtney and Town of Bedias. 
 
Hauling:  
Lease trucks have been hauling base to the FM 2445/Iola stockpiles.  
 
Various: 
Spot overlay the dig outs on CR 252 with recycled asphalt. 
Cleaned brush around headwalls on CR 220. 
Reshaped ditches and installed 18x120 Ō. culvert in front of the JusƟce Center Annex. 
Cleaned up and organized North and South yards.  
Hauled old culverts and scrap metal from both yards to scrap yards. 
Received lightweight aggregate for seal coaƟng.  
 
Road Projects: 
CR 115, CR 206, CR 313, CR 175 pending weather condiƟons for ﬁnish blading and chip sealing. 
CR 316A reconstrucƟng and widening ditches, ﬁnishing subgrade stabilizaƟon. 
 
Drainage: 
 
Ditch work: 
Created/improved drainage on CR 407 and Renfaire Drive.  
 
Culvert/Cross Culvert InstallaƟon: 
Installed two 18x24 culvert on CR 172. 
Installed four 18x24 culvert on CR 175. 
Installed two 18x24 culvert on CR 242. 
Installed one 15x24 culvert on CR 316A. 
 
        GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 6/17/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

Development: 
 
New Permit ApplicaƟons May 2026: 
   -  Driveway/Culvert: 10 
   -  Floodplain Development: 6 
   -  NoƟce of ResidenƟal ConstrucƟon: 7 
   -  NoƟce of ResidenƟal InspecƟon: 0 
   -  OSSF: 26 
   -  Vehicle Road Use: 47 

PV Ready Mix road use agreement pending.  Plan and drainage report review underway, Precinct 4. 

Friendly Food Mart civil plans approved condiƟonal upon plat ﬁnal approval and ﬁre safety review.   

Trident Compressor StaƟon civil plans, drainage report, and NFPA pending resubmiƩal, Precinct 2. 

Aurora 105 convenience store requesƟng drainage variance, Precinct 4. 

Ongoing compliance eﬀorts with Floodplain RegulaƟons and IRC non-compliant residenƟal structures. 

Weekly development training ongoing, Tuesdays at 1:00 pm at the JusƟce Center Annex/ or via Zoom. 

Various plat and plan reviews throughout Grimes County. 

27 new addresses issued in May 2026. 

Solid Waste / Signs: 

Installed Clover POS systems and Wiﬁ/Hotspots at Iola and Whitehall sites. 

Reinstalled stop signs on Hill St. at Buﬃngton. 

Mowed and sprayed weeds at all collecƟon sites. 

EvaluaƟng permanent Ɵre disposal operaƟons at certain solid waste collecƟon sites. 

Deposited $8,192 in solid waste collecƟon fees (May 2026). 

Environmental: 

Received 502 maintenance inspecƟon reports.  Processed 133 maintenance tracking fee 
invoices.  Received 162 maintenance contracts (May 2026).  Received $11,935.00 in sepƟc 
review/inspecƟon fees. 

Working to bring properƟes with expired maintenance contracts into compliance. 

AƩended 16th Annual Harris County Onsite Wastewater Seminar May 14th. 

        GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 6/17/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

Grants: 

CDBG-DR GLO Harvey ReallocaƟon E285:  Design and environmental underway. 

GLO MIT-MOD CR 409 / Tawneyberry E761:  Property acquisiƟon pending. 

GLO Resilient CommuniƟes Program: GLO Deliverables under review. 

2024 Disasters CDBG-DR GLO: SubmiƩed Phase 1 $4M applicaƟon March 23rd for 2x bridge replacements 
on CR 132 damaged in April/May ﬂoods.  5% local match if approved. 

FY 24/26 FEMA FMA: Resubmiƫng FY24 grant applicaƟon, due June 25th.                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 23. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:      Joe Fauth 
Item Type:         Action Item 
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 
Subject:           Discuss and take action to adopt the International Fire Code 2024 with Addendum and 
                   Appendices B, C, D, F, H, I, J, K, L, N, and Q. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    D BUMPOUS - Proposed Fire Codes June 2026 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 27. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:      Joe Fauth 
Item Type:         Action Item 
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 
Subject:           Consider and take action to change the name of Emergency Management Services to Office 
                   of Emergency Management and Fire Marshal. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    D BUMPOUS - EMFM seal 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 28. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:      Joe Fauth 
Item Type:         Action Item 
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 
Subject:           Consider and take action to approve contract for FireInspection360 Software. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    D BUMPOUS - FireInspection360 Quote 6-5-2026 FY 2026 
                                                                     Agenda Item Number: 29. 

                                   Item Cover Page 


 
Commissioners Court Agenda Item Report 
Date:              June 17, 2026 
Submitted By:      Joe Fauth 
Item Type:         Action Item 
Agenda Section:    Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 
Subject:           Discuss and take action on proposed Fire Marshal Fee Schedule. 

 
Suggested Action: 
 
 
Attachments: 
1.    D BUMPOUS - GCOEMFM Fee Schedule 2026 
 