                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                   Wednesday, April 15, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and approve the plat of Hadley Haven Subdivision located in Precinct 2. 

 2.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Employee Service Awards 

 5.   Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
       
      10 YEARS 
      Andrew Duncan 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

 Focusing Families - Hilda Martinez (JF) 

 8.   Consider and take action to proclaim April 2026 as Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. 

 Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

 9.   Discuss and take action to approve a revised Resolution for Rifle Resistant Body Armor Grant, originally approved on January 
      21, 2026, to incorporate requested changes from the Office of the Governor, including specifically naming the authorized 
      official and the Financial Officer. 

 Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (DT) 

 10.  Receive County Clerk transition audit report. 

 Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

 11.  Road Department Report. 

 12.  Discuss and take action to approve the purchase of 4 Clover point of sale devices for the solid waste collection sites and 
      authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 13.  Request authorization to advertise the following contracts for bids or renew eligible annual contracts: Asphalt & Emulsions and 
      Contract Mowing. 

 Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

 14.  Discuss and take action to approve the first invoice regarding purchase of ambulances. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 15.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a Burn Ban Order.) 

 16.  Consider and take action to select an applicant and authorize an offer for the Grimes County Human Resources Director Position. It is 
      expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 

 17.  Consider and take action to approve an agreement with LK Jordan Recruiting Firm to seek candidates for the Human Resources Director 
      position. 

 18.  Discuss and take any necessary action regarding Human Resource personnel matters. It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed 
      session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 

 Adjourn 

  


                      
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge
                        
DATED: 04/08/2026 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the right to convene in executive session at any time deemed 
necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the 
County Clerk no later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can be found in the Rules of Procedure, 
Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 