                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                    Wednesday, July 15, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and approve the replat for Bluebonnet Hills lot 1 & 2 located in Precinct 1. 

 2.   Review and Accept the internal audit of the Sheriff's Office Jail Administration. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Grimes County IT Systems Administrator - Andrew Duncan (JF) 

8.   Discuss and take action on enrollment in TAC County Information Resources Agency (CIRA) free AI Training course 
     that would meet the state requirements pursuant Texas Government Code 2054.519, and authorize the County Judge as 
     signatory. 

Grimes County EMC/Fire Marshal - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

9.   Consider and take action to add radios to Brazos Valley Wide Area Communication System (BVWACS). 

10.  Consider/discuss authorization to issue a request for proposals (RFP) for Fire Plan Review and inspection and authorize 
     the County Attorney and County Auditor to approve the RFP forms. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (MR/CM) 

11.  Road Department Report. 

12.  Discuss and take action to authorize the Road Department to advertise Solid Waste Disposal Services, Container Rental 
     Services, and Solid Waste Hauling Services. 

13.  Discuss and take action to amend the Texas GLO DRRP CR 102 bridge design contract with Huitt-Zollars, Precinct 1. 

14.  Request authorization to negotiate a professional services contract with Odyssey Engineering Group, LLC for GIS 
     Support Services to develop public-facing mapping resources and enhancement of internal GIS capabilities. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

15.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a 
     burn ban order.) 

16.  Discuss and take action to approve the Interlocal Cooperation Contract between the Department of Public Safety (DPS) 
     and Grimes County (the Local Government Entity Employer "LGEE"). 

17.  Discuss and take action to reappoint Megan Barcak, whose term ends on September 30, 2026, to the BVCOG Board of 
     Directors, and to appoint Commissioner Chad Mallett to replace Commissioner David Tullos, whose term ends on 
     September 30, 2026, with both appointees' terms convening October 1, 2026, and ending September 30, 2029. 

18.  Consider and review the request from the Grimes County Republican Party regarding early voting locations. 

19.  Discuss and take action to approve the resolution of the Grimes County Commissioners Court supporting responsible 
     data center and associated technologies development while protecting natural resources, and the interests of Texas 
     communities. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

20.  Discuss and take any necessary action on proposed economic development negotiations. EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is 
     expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas 
     Government Code to discuss commercial or financial information that the Commissioners Court has received from 
     EVAPCO, Inc. that the Commissioners Court seeks to have locate, stay, or expand within the County in the Navasota 
     Industrial Park and with which the Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations, and to 
     deliberate the offer of a financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed manufacturing facility for heat-
     transfer equipment and thermal-management systems for cooling, refrigeration, and industrial processing applications. 

Adjourn 

 
                            
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 07/09/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the right to convene 
in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas Government Code, Sections 
551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no later than 15 minutes prior to the start of 
an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and 
Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
          
          