                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                             Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                    Wednesday, May 20, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
Call to Order 

Invocation 

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
minutes per person.  

Consent Agenda Items 

1.    Consider and approve the replat of the West Magnolia Forest Water Plant, Lot 1, Block 2, Section 18 of Magnolia Forest 
      Subdivision located in Precinct 2. 

2.    Consider and approve the replat for The Cedars Section 2 Partial Replat #1 located in Precinct 2. 

3.    Consider and approve the replat for The Cedars Section 2 Partial Replat #2 located in Precinct 2. 

4.    Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for April 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, 
      in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

5.    Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

6.    Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

7.    Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Employee Service Awards 

8.    Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
       
      15 YEARS 
      Tammy Castro Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

9.    Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

10.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Agent - Matthew Pfeifer (JF) 

11.   Discuss and take action to allow Matthew Pfeifer to use his county credit card for travel-related expenses to accept a national 
      award being presented at the National County Agent Conference in Denver, CO in July. 

Grimes County Treasurer - Tom Maynard (JF) 

12.   Consider and take action to increase the Treasurer’s Travel & Conferences budget for upcoming conferences. 

Grimes County Constable Precinct 1 - James Ellis (CM) 

13.   Discuss and take action to replace Constable Pct 1 mobile radio. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

14.   Consider and take action regarding the installation of a GPS tracking device in a Texas Parks and Wildlife Game Warden 
      vehicle operating within the county for officer safety and coordination purposes. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (PC) 

15.   Consideration and possible action to approve the use of the Lions Club Building by the Grimes County Master Gardeners for 
      regularly scheduled meetings and determine fee schedule. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

16.   Road Department Report. 

17.   Discussion and possible action to approve temp-to-hire staffing contracts with Memco Staffing and Ameritech Staffing, Inc. 
      and approve transfer of funds. 

18.   Discuss and take action to approve or deny a waiver valuation policy in support of property acquisitions for the CR 
      409/Pinebrook GLO MIT-MOD grant. 

19.   Discuss and take action to terminate the CDV23-0382 Brosig Avenue Bridge project grant, de-obligate all funds, and authorize 
      a refund of $21,250 to the Texas Department of Agriculture. 

20.   Discuss and take action to approve budget transfers in support of Road Department Field Operations restructuring. 

Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (DT/JF) 

21.   Consider and take action to approve conference meal reimbursement. 

22.   Discuss and take action regarding the Credit Card Policy as it relates to the Historical Commission and Child Welfare Board. 

23.   Consider and take action on Voices for Children payment in support of local families at Resource Day submitted by the Child 
      Welfare Board. Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

24.   Discuss and take action to approve Grimes County's appointed members to the Homeland Security Advisory Committee. 

25.   Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
      order.) 

Grimes County Human Resources Director - Atina Adair (MR) 

26.   Consider and take action on employment status of a county employee. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or 
      executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, 
      reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

27.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the 
      Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information that the Commissioners Court 
      has received from Space Exploration Technologies Corp. The Commissioners Court is conducting economic development 
      negotiations and will deliberate an offer of financial or other incentive to the business prospect of a multi-phase, next-
      generation, vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility, proposed to be 
      located at the Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas. 

Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 05/13/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 