 

                         NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING 
                             Grimes County, Texas 
 
The Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas, will convene in public session at its regularly 
scheduled meeting on June 3, 2026 at 9:00am at the Grimes County Commissioner Courtroom, 
located in the Grimes County Justice & Business Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas, at 
which the County Commissioners will consider approval of a property tax abatement agreement 
as described below.  
 
Name of property owner and applicant for the tax abatement agreement:  
 
Space Exploration Technologies Corp., a Texas corporation 
1 Rocket Road, Starbase, Texas 78521 
 
Name and location of reinvestment zone in which property is located:  
 
SpaceX Reinvestment Zone No. 1 – 2026-001 will be located at the Gibbons Creek Reservoir 
and surrounding areas.  
          
A general description of the nature of the improvements in the agreements is as follows: 
 
SpaceX proposes construction  of  a multi-phase, next-generation, vertically  integrated 
semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility, which would represent 
a transformative investment in domestic semiconductor manufacturing capacity. 
 
Estimated cost of improvements or repairs:  
 
Estimated capital investment for the initial phases is $55 billion, with an estimated total capital 
investment (if additional phases are constructed) of $119 billion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON THE PROPOSED DESIGNATION OF                          SPACEX 
 REINVESTMENT ZONE NO. 1 –       2026-001 BY THE COMMISSIONERS COURT OF GRIMES 
 COUNTY, TEXAS 
  
 On the 3rd day of June, 2026 at 9:00 A.M. in the Grimes County Commissioners Courtroom, located in the Grimes 
County Justice & Business Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas in Grimes County, Texas, the Grimes 
County Commissioners Court will hold a public hearing on the matter of the proposed designation of certain 
property located near the Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas as a Reinvestment Zone under 
Subchapter C, Chapter 312 of the Texas Property Tax Code. This designation would allow for tax abatement 
agreements to be entered into by the County with owners of real property, personal property, equipment and 
fixtures within the Reinvestment Zone. The property to be considered for Reinvestment Zone designation is 
indicated in the Site Maps below. 
 
The specific boundary of the proposed Reinvestment Zone is delineated in the Site Map Below, and it is intended 
 for the construction, installation, and operation of a multi-phase, next-generation, vertically integrated 
semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility.  
 
At the hearing, interested persons are entitled to speak and present evidence for or against the designation.  Upon 
the close of the public hearing, the Commissioners Court intends to take action on whether or not to establish and 
designate the Reinvestment Zone. Its designation would be “SpaceX Reinvestment Zone No. 1 – 2026-001.” 
 
                                        SITE MAPS 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 