                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                             Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                    Wednesday, April 1, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
Call to Order 

Invocation 

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
minutes per person.  

Consent Agenda Items 

1.    Ratify the Grimes County Road Department's July 2025 sale of the 2013 International Dump Truck (VIN#8995) on GovDeals. 

2.    Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for February 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of 
      same, in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

3.    Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

4.    Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

5.    Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

6.    Human Resources, IT, Elections 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

7.    County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Cave Wells (DT) 

8.    Discuss and take action regarding a proclamation to commemorate the 180th anniversary of the creation of Grimes County. 

Grimes County Child Welfare Board - Talitta Coleman (JF) 

9.    Child Abuse Awareness presentation by Scotty’s House. The Court will take a brief recess at 10:00 a.m. to participate in the 
      presentation and will reconvene immediately following the presentation. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

10.   Consider and take action to approve the purchase of five (5) tables for use in the Election Storage Warehouse using Surplus 
      Election Contract Funds. 

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

11.   Discuss and take action on the Grand Fondo Bike Ride Roadway application and permit. 

Grimes County IT Director - Gregg Cannon (JF) 

12.   Discuss and take action to approve a LGS license for County Clerk office using funds from unfilled position to cover the 6 
      months license; $1,260.00. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd 

13.   Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber 

14.   Discuss and take action to approve a waiver valuation policy for involuntary acquisitions. 

15.   Discuss and take action to approve a contract with B&R Water Well Drilling, LLC. 

Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (DT) 

16.   Receive County Clerk transition audit report. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

17.   Discuss and take action on an Order to authorize the County Judge to execute a Quitclaim Deed from Grimes County to the 
      State of Texas, Texas Transportation Commission, for the Main Street located in Anderson Texas. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

18.   Highlights from 2026 Spring Judicial Education Session. 

19.   Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a Burn 
      Ban Order.) 

20.   Discuss Human Resources Director applicants and determine interview process. It is expected that the Court will conduct a 
      closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 

Adjourn 

  
                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 03/25/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 