                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                   Wednesday, August 5, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 2.   Accept donations from the Grimes County True Blue Foundation. 

 3.   Receive standard mileage rates modification as issued by the Internal Revenue Service for 2026: 76 cents per mile for business 
      miles driven; effective July 1, 2026. 

 4.   Receive and approve the Grimes County 2nd Quarter Investment Report for the period ending June 30, 2026. 

 5.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for June 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, in 
      accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 7.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 8.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 9.   Human Resources, IT, Elections, Emergency Management Services 
Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

10.  County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
     Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

11.  Discuss and take action to review the previous consideration of the Commissioners Court regarding early voting locations for 
     the November election. 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 2 - David Tullos 

12.  Discuss, Consider and Accept presentation of petition and petition signatures from the Grimes County Citizens for Responsible 
     Development Directors regarding strong protections before Grimes County grants tax breaks, incentives, agreements, or other 
     county support to large industrial projects. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

13.  Participate in a question and answer presentation with SpaceX/Terafab representatives. 

Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce Executive Director - Mariana Almanza-Cook (JF) 

14.  Discuss and take action to accept the MOU between the Greater Brazos Partnership and Girmes County, TX, and authorize the 
     County Judge as signatory. 

Grimes County District Clerk - Diane LeFlore (JF) 

15.  Receive the District Judges' Compensation Order for County Auditor and Assistants according to Local Govenment Code 
     152.031(b). 

Grimes County Constable Precinct 1 - James Ellis (JF) 

16.  Consider and take action to approve the 2027 Sheriff's and Constables' fees, as required under Texas Local Government Code, 
     Section 118.131. 

Grimes County Treasurer - Tom Maynard (JF) 

17.  Review and approve the establishment of an investment account with TexPool and authorize the County Judge as signatory on 
     the Resolution Authorizing Participation in the TexPool Investment Pools and Designating Authorized Representatives. 

18.  Approve the Grimes County Investment Policy. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

19.  Consider and take action to approve the Order of Election for the November 3, 2026 General Election and authorize the County 
     Judge as Signatory. 

20.  Consider and take action to appoint Election Day Judges, Early Voting Ballot Board and Central Counting Station Members 
     for a one-year term. 

Grimes County IT Director - Gregg Cannon (JF) 

21.  Discussion and possible approval of authorized IT-approved chatbots for employee use under the organization's AI policy. 

22.  Discuss and take action to approve swapping IT backup solution from Commvault to Kaseya Unitrends receiving 2 free months 
      and saving an estimated $60,000 yearly over Commvault services. 

 Grimes County EMC/Fire Marshal - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

 23.  Discuss and take action on disposing of water stored in sign shop storage. 

 Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd 

 24.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

 Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

 25.  Discuss and take action to approve 2 new Jail Sergeant positions for the Grimes County Jail. 

 Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (JF) 

 26.  Consider and approve Walker County Interlocal Agreement for FY 27 and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 27.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
      order.) 

 28.  Discuss and take action to approve the Texas Statewide Interoperable Channel Plan MOU for the Homeland Security Grant for 
      radios, and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 29.  Discuss and take action to approve the resolution of the Grimes County Commissioners Court supporting responsible 
      data center and associated technologies development while protecting natural resources, and the interests of Texas 
      communities. 

 Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (CM/PC) 

 30.  Discuss and take action to approve a professional services contract with Odyssey Engineering Group, LLC for GIS support 
      services to develop public-facing mapping resources and enhancement of internal GIS capabilities for $22,170. 

 31.  Discuss and take action on right of way purchase for the County Road 409 project.  It is expected that the Court will convene a 
      closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code § 551.072 (deliberate the purchase, exchange, lease, or value 
      of real property). 

 Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

 32.  Discussion and action on the designation and creation of EVAPCO Reinvestment Zone No. 2026-001 pursuant to Chapter 312 
      of the Texas Tax Code. 

 33.  Discussion and action on a Tax Abatement Agreement between EVAPCO, Inc. and Grimes County, Texas pursuant to Chapter 
      312 of the Texas Tax Code. It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to 
      Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information. 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 07/29/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 