                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                     Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                      The Minutes of the Special Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on April 21, 2026 at 9:23 AM 
there was a Commissioners Court Special Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

1.   Discuss and approve Amendments to the Executive Summary of Guidelines and Criteria for Tax Abatements 
     Pursuant to Texas Tax Code Chapter 312 and for Grants Pursuant to Texas Local Government Code Chapter 
     381. 
     County Attorney Megan Barcak: County Judge Joe Fauth III  stated to the County Attorney that the proposed 
     changes were made per the Judge's request because if there is a company that wanted to come in and put 
     Power Plants, not solar-powered plants, they could not pursue based on our current wording of 381 and 312 
     agreements. Ms. Barcak stated that, technically, this does not give tax abatement or a 381 initially. The first 
     step would be to set a reinvestment zone. If the Court finds that the area where the project is going in doesn't 
     make sense for reinvestment, it does not get past that point. As stated currently, it would not allow for an 
     application. The Judge has received several emails and a visit from Marie with a list of proposed companies 
     that might be coming in. The Judge also stated that if another company like Tenaska wanted to come into 
     Grimes County or power generation, the way our wording is now would exclude them from even applying. 
      The County Judge and County Attorney discussed a good fix to the agreement is about a committee. The idea 
     on page 13 is because the way the committee is set up consists of the County Judge, whichever Precinct 
     Commissioner the project would affect, or if the project split precinct lines, the Commissioner who had the 
     most geography affected would be the first one appropriated. Ms Barcak suggested having four 
     representatives of the Grimes County community, one from each precinct on the Committee. A representative 
     from the Grimes County Appraisal District selected by the Director of the GCAD, a representative from the 
     business community and a Grimes County Employee Commissioners Court may revise appointments at any 
     given time with a majority vote of the Court. The idea behind that sometimes the County Auditor, the 
     Facilities Director or the County Engineer may need to be on the Committee. Judge Fauth asked the Commissioners for any comments.  
Precinct 2 Commissioner David Tullos: First suggestion is a textual addition about the Community 
Representatives from each precinct. Add the language, nominated by the Precinct Commissioner. Also, on 
pages 8 & 10, Roman numeral V(5) Ineligible Property. Phrases Mr Tullos believes needs to be added: If the 
phrasing to be removed pertaining to electricity generating facilities, the added phrase should read Solar 
Powered Facility devoted to the production or generation of electricity. Add the phrase wind power facilities 
devoted to the production or generation of electricity. Add to the list of ineligible property, battery energy 
storage systems aka BESS. Add a phrase that pertains to Cloud, Co-Location and Hyper Scale Data Centers. 
Mr Tullos stated that is his recommended changes to the document under Ineligible property under both 
Section 381 Grants and the section pertaining to Tax Abatement on page 8 & 10 Roman numeral V(5). Page 
22 which pertains to Sunset Provision, reads an effective date of January 1, 2026. This should be amended to 
reflect the date the Court will take the vote to offer these revisions. Mr Tullos reserves the right to offer 
additional discussion pending what may be brought by other Commissioners. Judge Fauth stated he does 
agree with the solar powered facilities being excluded, he understands the wind power, but, he does have an 
issue on the battery storage because power plants can generate power they can store in these batteries in the 
event there is some type of generation, this power can be channeled over to the grid system. Judge Fauth 
asked Commissioner Tullos to elaborate on the Cloud and Hyper Scale data centers. Mr Tullos stated there 
are all different types of data centers. What comes to mind is a large-scale facility that is detrimental to the 
environment, damaging to water, generate a lot of noise and not conducive to the quality of life Grimes 
County is used to. Mr Tullos stated there is a broad spectrum of data centers to the smallest that is strictly for 
one business to the large-scale. He believes there should not be any incentives or tax abatement for these 
facilities.  
County Judge Joe Fauth III asked the County Attorney if she had anything further to add. Ms Barcak stated 
that if the Commissioners wanted to address and vote on each item individually or as a whole.   
Ms Barcak also stated to accept the amendments it must be a three fourths (3/4) vote.  
Motion by David Tullos to Approve on pages 8 & 10 underneath Roman numeral V(5) titled Ineligible 
Property, add the language Solar Powered Facilities,devoted to the production or generation of electricity. 
Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Motion by David Tullos to Approve on pages 8 & 10 underneath Roman numeral V(5) titled Ineligible 
Property include the phrase Wind Powered Facilities devoted to the production or generation of electricity. 
 Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Motion by David Tullos to Approve pages 8 & 10 Roman numeral V(5) underneath Ineligible Property 
include the phrase Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
Commissioner Mallett: Yes Commissioner Tullos: Yes  Commissioner Raska: No Commissioner Cox: 
Yes Judge Fauth: No 
In Favor: 3 
Opposed: 2 
Motion Failed 
 
Motion by David Tullos to Approve pages 8 & 10 Roman numeral V(5) underneath Ineligible Property 
include the phrase Cloud Data Centers; Co-Location Data Centers; and Hyper-Scale Data Centers. Seconded 
by Chad Mallett. 
Commissioner Mallett: Yes Commissioner Tullos: Yes Commissioner Raska: Yes Commissioner Cox: 
No Judge Fauth: No 
In Favor: 3 
Opposed: 2 
Motion Failed       
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve the removal of facilities primarily devoted to the production, generation 
     or transmission of electricity.  Seconded by County Judge Joe Fauth. 
     Commissioner Mallett: Yes Commissioner Tullos: No Commissioner Raska: Yes Commissioner Cox: 
     Yes Judge Fauth: Yes 
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 1 
     Motion Passed 
      
     Motion by County Judge Joe Fauth to Approve the changes to the Committee including Commissioner 
     Tullos's proposed language. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 
      

2.   Discuss and authorize the county attorney to engage outside counsel. 
     County Attorney Megan Barcak: County Judge Joe Fauth stated that after conversations with the County 
     Attorney, this is not her field of expertise, so if the Court were to move in the direction of allowing or not 
     allowing, she may have to refer to outside counseling.  
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to allow the County Attorney to engage in outside Counsel. Seconded by 
     Michael Raska. 
     Commissioner Cox asked for clarification on setting an expense if outside counsel is needed. Judge Fauth 
     stated he and Ms Barcak had the opportunity to speak to an attorney that is well versed in this area. Their fees 
     are added to the requestor, or company requesting the abatement. Ms Barcak stated outside counsel would 
     only be brought in if it got that far into the process. Counsel would sign an engagement agreement stating that 
     their ethical obligation is to the County.  
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

3.   Discuss and appoint a committee in accordance with the Executive Summary of Guidelines and Criteria for 
     Tax Abatements Pursuant to Texas Tax Code Chapter 312 and for Grants Pursuant to Texas Local 
     Government Code Chapter 381. It is expected that the court will conduct a closed session as authorized by 
     Texas Government Code § 551.0745 to deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, 
     duties, discipline, or dismissal of a member of an advisory body. (Personnel Matters). 
     It is expected that the court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code § 
     551.0745 to deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or 
     dismissal of a member of an advisory body. (Personnel Matters)  
     Court convened @ 9:56 am 
     Court re-convened @ 10:55 am 
     No Appointments for the Committee at this time. Commissioners and County Judge are to bring back to next 
     Regular meeting of Commissioners Court, those that they would consider to be on the Committee. 

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 10:56 AM 

  STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for April 21, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 