                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                  Wednesday, February 4, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and approve the replat of Magnolia Reserve Tract 1 and Tract 2 located in Precinct 2. 

 2.   Receive and approve the Grimes County 4th Quarter Investment Report for the period ending December 31, 2025. 

 3.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for December 2025 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of 
      same, in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 4.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 7.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 8.   Human Resources, IT, Elections 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 9.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

10.  Consider and take action to approve conference meal reimbursement. 

Grimes County Tax Assessor-Collector - Mary Ann Waters (JF) 

11.  Discuss and take action to approve the updated Exhibit A of the Certified Payments Service Provider Agreement for credit card 
     processing. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF) 

12.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

13.  Discuss and take action to auction surplus items. 

14.  Discuss and possible action regarding County activities and response during Winter Storm Fern. 

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

15.  Consider and take action to add and remove radios from Brazos Valley Wide Area Communications System (BVWACS). 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

16.  Consider and approve the Resolution to receive the Grant for the Indigent Defense Program and authorize the County Judge as 
     signatory. 

17.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
     order.) 

18.  Receive any updates on the Strategic Plan. 

Grimes County Human Resources Director - Talitta Coleman (JF) 

19.  Consider and take action to approve travel reimbursement for non-itemized receipt. 

20.  Consider and take action to adjust salary compensation for potential new hire for Grimes County District Attorney's Office and 
     allow HR and Auditor's office to make necessary changes.  It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive 
     session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, 
     duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

21.  Consider and take action in furtherance of the sales of the following, whether in whole or in part: 7.582 acres on Veterans 
     Memorial Drive, Navasota, Texas, the Road & Bridge building (1022 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), the Environmental 
     Department building (1010 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), and/or other county-owned properties located in the Town of 
     Anderson. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive session regarding this item pursuant to Texas 
     Government Code 551.072 (Deliberation Regarding Real Property). 

Adjourn 

                                  
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 01/28/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 