                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                             Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                Amended Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                     Wednesday, May 6, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
Call to Order 

Invocation 

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
minutes per person.  

Consent Agenda Items 

1.    Consider and approve the replat for King Oaks, Section 1 lot 109-R located in Precinct 1. 

2.    Receive and approve the Grimes County 1st Quarter Investment Report for the period ending March 31, 2026. 

3.    Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for March 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of same, 
      in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

4.    Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

5.    Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

6.    Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

7.    Human Resources, IT, Elections 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

8.    County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
             Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce Executive Director - Mariana Almanza-Cook (DT) 

9.    Presentation of Quarterly Update: January 2026 - March 2026. 

Grimes County Treasurer - Tom Maynard (JF) 

10.   Discuss and approve engaging Patillo, Brown and Hill, CPA’s to correct W-2 Statements for approximately twenty employees 
      and file amended reports associated with these and authorize the County Judge as signatory for the engagement letter. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

11.   Consider and take action to approve the purchase of five (5) tables for use in the Election Storage Warehouse using Surplus 
      Election Contract Funds. 

12.   Consider and take action to approve the Election Department as the official Courthouse Event Coordinator, responsible for the 
      scheduling and coordination of all courthouse events. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (PC) 

13.   Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

14.   Discuss and take action to increase the rental fee for the Grimes County Expo and Fairgrounds Barns, with the new rate to 
      apply to all rental agreements executed on or after the date of approval. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF/CM) 

15.   Discuss and take action to approve a professional services agreement with Bleyl Engineering for private development permit 
      application reviews, no cost to Grimes County. 

16.   Discuss and take action to approve a professional services contract with Huitt-Zollars, Inc. for design of the County Road 102 
      bridge over Navasota River Relief, Texas GLO Disaster Recovery Reallocation Program (DRRP), Precinct 1. 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

17.   Discuss and take action to appoint Melanie Tullis to the Grimes County Child Welfare Board. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

18.   Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
      order.) 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

19.   Discuss and appoint a committee in accordance with the Executive Summary of Guidelines and Criteria for Tax Abatements 
      Pursuant to Texas Tax Code Chapter 312 and for Grants Pursuant to Texas Local Government Code Chapter 381. It is expected 
      that the court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code § 551.0745 to deliberate the 
      appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a member of an advisory body. 
      (Personnel Matters). 

20.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to 
      Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information that the 
      Commissioners Court has received from a business prospect that the Commissioners Court seeks to have locate, stay, or 
      expand in the County and with which the Commissioners Court is conducting economic development negotiations, and to 
      deliberate the offer of a financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed manufacturing, data center and power 
      plant project. Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 04/29/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 