Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth II

Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Budget Meeting are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on August 10, 2026 at 9:00
AM there was a Commissioners Court Budget Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County
Justice Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:
Due to technical difficulties, the meeting was delayed being Called to Order. The time the meeting began was
9:38 am

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III

1. Discuss and review the Grimes County FY 2027 proposed budget.
Discussion was held regarding the Proposed Budget. EMC/Fire Marshal Dione Bumpous was in attendance to
present her budget for Fire Marshal Fund 63, Restricted Funds. Salaries and Capital Projects were the main
subjects. No salary was discussed for any specific employee or position. Judge Fauth has proposed a $4.00
raise increase across the board for all employees and elected officials. Judge Fauth asked the Commissioners
for their recommendations of what COLA and or merit raises should be. Commissioner Raska was in favor of
the $4.00/hr across the board raise. Commissioner Mallett suggested a 4% COLA for Elected Officials and a
6% COLA for all employees. The Sheriffs Office is still being reviewed to bring salaries up to an attractive
level to entice qualified applicants. Court re-reviewed the list of the 13 new positions that are proposed for
different departments. Facilities Director Rodney Floyd was asked to clarify some questions the Court had
concerning Capital Projects i.e., The Go Texan Building, Precinct 1 Annex and the Jail Expansion. IT
Director Gregg Cannon was also asked to clarify several line items in his hardware and software budget.
No Action Taken: The meeting was Discussion only. No formal action, order, or vote was taken by the
Court.
**Note: While this session was broadcast or recorded in accordance with Texas Government Code §
551.128, the digital media file suffered irrecoverable technical corruption and could not be archived.
The written minutes above constitute the official legal record of this meeting.**

Adjourn

Motion by Chad Mallett to Adjourn. Seconded by Michael Raska.

In Favor: 5
Opposed: 0
Motion Passed

Meeting was adjourned at 1:18 PM

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for August 10, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas