                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                         SECOND AMENDED Notice of the Special Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                    Tuesday, March 10, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

 1.   Discuss and take action to authorize the award of an administrative service provider contract for the Texas GLO 2024 Disasters 
      Infrastructure Grant Program. 

 2.   Discussion and possible action on programs to abate illegal dumping, public nuisances, public health nuisances, and other 
      environmental violations in Grimes County. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve annual funding of heavy equipment. 

 4.   Consider and take action on a resolution regarding a contract for the purpose of financing heavy equipment. 

 Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

 5.   Discuss liability concerns regarding subdivision design standards.  It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as 
      authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 (Consultation with Attorney). 

 Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

 6.   Discuss legal liability and potential litigation of the County.  It is expected that the Court  will conduct a closed session as 
      authorized by Texas Government Code 551.071 (Consultation with attorney). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 03/04/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 