                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                    Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III called meeting to order at 8:49 am. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

1.   Consider public input on draft proposed updates to the Grimes County Floodplain Order and the Grimes 
     County Floodplain Development Permit Application. 
     Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Input on draft proposed updates to the Grimes County Floodplain 
     Order and the Grimes County Floodplain Development Permit Application.  Draft proposals have been posted 
     on the website since November, they have been available to share on social media, and can continue if the 
     Court feels it is necessary. Multiple conversations with the Texas Water Development Board about these 
     regulations with approval from them. Couple of Engineering firms reviewing and providing comments. 
     Development Review Group members have reviewed and given comments with a year of discussion. Our 
     new consultant with the Community Rating System (CRS) program has been very helpful making sure we 
     add a few things to ensure to get our points up to achieve that level in the program.  There is a summary of 
     changes that gives a statement on every rule that has been implemented. Mr Steiber stated the key change in 
     the FloodPlain Regulations is that it applies to the entire County and not just the Flood Plain areas. Zone A is 
     unstudied and inadequate. Adopting maps created by multiple Federal agencies, the base level engineering 
     that FEMA has published gives us a lot more defined risk of flooding throughout the County. It enables the 
     Road Dept to get involved before something is built to make sure it meets base requirements. If the County 
     was classified as non-compliant by FEMA regarding management of the flood plain there is a chance 
     someone could not obtain flood insurance. Pertains to just the unincorporated areas of the County. 
     Commissioner Mallett asked if this is offered to the other cities or is it under our Interlocal Agreement. Mr 
     Steiber stated that some cities rely on the Road Department for advice on structures that are being built or 
     development cites. Each Commissioner would be responsible to contact the incorporated areas in their 
     respective precincts.  

Adjourn 
 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed  
Meeting was adjourned at 8:57 AM 

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for January 7, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 60.3(d)  
             FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCEORDER 
 
                                   ARTICLE I 
 
 
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS 
 
SECTION A.  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION 
 
The Legislature of the State of Texas has in the Flood Control Insurance Act, 
Texas Water Code, Section 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local 
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.  
Therefore, the Commissioner’s Court of Grimes County, Texas does ordain as 
follows: 
 
SECTION B. FINDINGS OF FACT 
 
    (1) The flood hazard areas ofAreas within the jurisdiction of  Grimes 
County are subject to periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and 
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental 
services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, 
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. 
 
    (2) These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions 
both in floodplains and by overflow caused by the diversion or impounding of 
water, which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the 
occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to 
other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise 
protected from flood damage. 
 
SECTION C.  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 
 
It is tThe purpose of this ordinanceOrder is to promote the public health, safety 
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood 
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to: 
 
    (1)  Protect human life and health; 
 
    (2)  Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control        
projects; 
 
    (3)  Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with      
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public; 
 
    (4)  Minimize prolonged business interruptions;  
    (5)  Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas 
mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in 
floodplains; 
 
    (6)  Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and   
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood 
blight areas; and  
 
    (7)  InsureEnsure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a 
flood area. 
 
SECTION D.  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES 
 
In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinanceOrder uses the following 
methods: 
 
    (1)  Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or    
property in times of flood, cause an unlawful impounding or diverting of 
natural flow of floodwater, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or 
velocities; 
 
    (2)  Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve 
such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial 
construction; 
 
    (3)  Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and  
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood 
waters; 
 
    (4)  Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may   
increase flood damage; 
 
    (5)  Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will    
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other 
lands. 
 
                                   ARTICLE 2 
 
                                  DEFINITIONS 
 
 
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this 
ordinanceOrder shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in 

                                         2common usage and to give this ordinanceOrder its most reasonable 
application. 
 
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE - means a structure which is subordinate to, and 
the use of which is incidental to, that of the principal structure or use on the 
same property. 
 
ADDITION – means an addition attached to, but outside of, either the vertical or 
horizontal  confines  of  the  existing  structure  or  below  the  first  floor  level  of  a 
building elevated on posts or piers, but which is not a “substantial improvement” 
as defined by these Regulations. 
 
ADMINISTRATIVELY COMPLETE - means a completed permit application that 
is submitted to Grimes County along with all required fees and includes all the 
required documents or Plans listed on the Administratively Complete Checklist 
provided on the Grimes County website.  An Administratively Complete permit 
application is ready for technical review. 
 
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING - means flooding occurring on the surface of an 
alluvial fan or similar landform which originates at the apex and is 
characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment 
transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths. 
 
APEX - means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the 
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and 
alluvial fan flooding can occur. 
 
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE – means a structure which is on the same parcel 
of property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is 
incidental to the use of the principal structure 
 
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD – means the land area that 
would be inundated by the 1-percent-annual chance (100 year) flood based on 
future conditions hydrology. 
 
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING - means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, 
AR/AH, or VO zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 
1 percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of 1 to 3 feet 
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is 
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.  Such flooding is 
characterized by ponding or sheet flow. 
 
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD - is the land in the floodplain within a 
community subject to a 1 percent or greater chance of flooding in any given 
year.  The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary 
                                         3Map (FHBM).  After detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for 
publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, 
AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V. 
 
BASE FLOOD - means the flood having a 1 percent chance of being equaled or 
exceeded in any given year. 
 
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) – The elevation shown on the Flood 
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance 
Study (FIS)  for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the 
water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of 
equaling or exceeding that level in any given year - also called the Base Flood. 
 
BASE LEVEL ENGINEERING (BLE) - is an automated riverine hydrologic and 
hydraulic modeling approach that builds on lessons learned to produce a base 
line understanding of a community’s flood risk. 
 
The  results  from  BLE  analyses  can  also  be  used  to  visualize,  analyze,  and 
describe the flood hazard in areas without regulatory information. 
 
BASEMENT - means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below 
ground level) on all sides. 
 
BREAKAWAY WALL – means a wall that is not part of the structural support 
of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse 
under specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated 
portion of the building or supporting foundation system. 
 
BUILDABLE AREA - means that portion of a residential lot shown on a final plat 
upon which a single-family dwelling unit or a multi-family residential structure 
may  be  lawfully  constructed,  located  or  placed,  including  a  site  built  home, 
modular  home,  manufactured  home,  duplex,  townhouse,  or  a  multi-unit 
residential building, and on-site sewage disposal systems, in accordance with 
applicable building restriction lines, covenants, plat notations, and setbacks, if 
any. 
 
COUNTY ENGINEER - the holder of the statutory office of County Engineer for 
Grimes County or the employee designated by the County Engineer to perform a 
task required by these Regulations. 
 
CRITICAL FACILITY – means a facility that is essential to the preservation of 
life and property and critical to the community’s public health and safety, are 
essential  to  the  functioning  of  a  community,  store  or  produce  highly  volatile, 
toxic or water-reactive materials, or house occupants that may be insufficiently 
mobile to avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of critical development include, 
                                         4but are not limited to, hospitals, emergency medical centers, schools, daycare 
facilities,  elderly  care  facilities,  jails,  public  electric  utilities,  police  and  fire 
stations  or  facilities,  emergency  operation  centers, , wastewater  treatment 
facilities,  water  plants,  gas/oil/propane  storage  facilities,  hazardous  waste 
handling and storage facilities and other public equipment storage facilities. 
 
CRITICAL FEATURE - means an integral and readily identifiable part of a 
flood protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the 
entire system would be compromised. 
 
DEVELOPMENT - means any man-made change to improved and unimproved 
real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, 
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of 
equipment or materials. 
 
Development  includes  substantial  improvements  to  existing  buildings  or 
structures.  Fences or fence-like structures in the floodplain are included in this 
definition. 
 
Development shall not include (1) routine maintenance and routine repairs to 
structures, (2) accessory buildings or structures not located in Zone A with floor 
areas less than 150 square ft, (3) certain agricultural activities that do not cause 
flooding  or other  impacts,  and  (4)  insignificant  activities  including  temporary 
storage of materials in Zone X. 
Development shall include Substantial Improvement of a structure or repair of a 
structure determined to be Substantially Damaged. 
 
The  applicability  of  this  definition is  subject  to  the  discretion  of  the  County 
Engineer or their designee. 
 
DRAINAGE – means runoff that flows over land as a result of precipitation.  This 
shall include sheet flow, flow in street and flows which may concentrate in local 
drainage systems with or without defined channels. 
 
ELEVATION - means height above mean sea level. The North American Vertical 
Datum (NAVD)  of  1988  shall  be  used. Any  future  studies  changing  the  FIRM 
which is referenced to a later re‐leveling of the vertical control system shall be 
used whenever a revised FIRM becomes effective. 
 
ELEVATED BUILDING – means, for insurance purposes, a non-basement 
building, which has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by 
foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.   
 


                                         5ELEVATION CERTIFICATE         – means   FEMA Form FF-206-FY-22-152,        October 
2022,  or  subsequent  revisions,  used  to  show  elevations  of  real  property  in 
relation to base flood elevations. 
 
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION - means for the purposes of determining rates, 
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective 
date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that 
date.  "Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures." 
 
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a 
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities 
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed 
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of 
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is 
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations 
adopted by a community. 
 
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR 
SUBDIVISION - means the preparation of additional sites by the construction 
of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be 
affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and 
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).   
 
FILL (AND FILLING) - Fill means natural sands, dirt, soil or rock placed above 
the natural grade to raise the elevation of the ground in a manner that diverts 
the existing natural flow in a way that causes damage to another property in a 
manner describer by Texas Water Code 11.086.  Fill may also include concrete, 
cement, soil cement, brick or similar material as approved on a case‐      by‐case 
basis.  Filling means the placement of these materials. 
 
FLOOD OR FLOODING - means a general and temporary condition of partial 
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from: 
 
    (1) the overflow of inland or tidal waters. 
    (2) the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from           
any source. 
 
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY – means an examination, evaluation and 
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface 
elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., 
mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards. 
 
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - means an official map of a 
community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has 

                                         6delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones 
applicable to the community. 
 
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) – see Flood Elevation Study 
 
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA - means any land area susceptible to 
being inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding). 
 
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR – means the community official designated by 
title to administer and  enforce the  floodplain management regulations.  In  the 
absence  of  a  County  Engineer,  an  individual  or  firm  qualified  to  perform 
floodplain management duties.  
 
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT - means the operation of an overall program of 
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but 
not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and 
floodplain management regulations. 
 
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS - means zoning 
ordinanceOrders, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, 
special purpose ordinanceOrders (such as a floodplain ordinanceOrder, grading 
ordinanceOrder and erosion control ordinanceOrder) and other applications of 
police power.  The term describes such state or local regulations, in any 
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage 
prevention and reduction.   
 
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM - means those physical structural works for 
which funds have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which 
have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the 
extent of the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and 
the extent of the depths of associated flooding.  Such a system typically 
includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes.  These 
specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with 
sound engineering standards. 
 
FLOOD PROOFING - means any combination of structural and non-structural 
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate 
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary 
facilities, structures and their contents. 
 
FLOODWAY – see Regulatory Floodway  
 
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE - means a use, which cannot perform its 
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. 
The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for 
                                         7the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship 
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related 
manufacturing facilities. 
 
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE - means the highest natural elevation of the 
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. 
 
HISTORIC STRUCTURE - means any structure that is:  
 
    (1) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing 
maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the 
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on 
the National Register; 
 
    (2) Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as 
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a 
district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered 
historic district; 
 
    (3) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with 
historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of 
Interior; or 
 
    (4) Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in        
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified 
either: 
 
         (a) By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of    
the Interior or; 
 
         (b) Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without                
approved programs. 
 
LEVEE - means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, 
designed and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to 
contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from 
temporary flooding. 
 
LEVEE SYSTEM - means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, 
or levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, 
which are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering 
practices. 
 
LOWEST FLOOR - means the lowest habitable floor or enclosed area of a 
building or structure usable for sleeping, living, cooking, working, recreation or 
                                         8any combination thereof. Bathrooms and utility rooms are included in this 
definition, as are storage areas greater than one hundred fifty (150) square feet 
in size.  of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).  An unfinished or 
flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access 
or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's 
lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the 
structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of 
Section 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations. 
 
MANUFACTURED HOME - means a structure transportable in one or more 
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or 
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The 
term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle". 
 
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a parcel (or 
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots 
for rent or sale. 
 
MEAN SEA LEVEL - means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance 
Program, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, 
to which base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate 
Map are referenced. 
 
NATURAL GRADE (OR NATURAL GROUND) – means the grade unaffected by 
construction techniques such as fill, landscaping, or berms. 
 
NEW CONSTRUCTION - means, for the purpose of determining insurance 
rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after 
the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is 
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.  For 
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for 
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a 
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any 
subsequent improvements to such structures.  
 
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a 
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities 
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed 
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of 
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is 
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations 
adopted by a community. 
 


                                         9PERMIT    – means  an  authorization   issued  by  Grimes  County   to  perform  an 
action related to construction, development, or business operation that must be 
obtained in order to perform the action for which the permit is sought.   
 
PLAN - means development drawings or specifications, preliminary subdivision 
drawings or specifications, subdivision construction drawings or specifications, 
site  drawings  or  specifications,  general  drawings  or  specifications,  land 
development drawings, specifications, or application or site development plan. 
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - means a vehicle which is (i) built on a single 
chassis; (ii) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal 
projections; (iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light 
duty truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but 
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. 
 
REGULATORY FLOODWAY - means the channel of a river or other 
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to 
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface 
elevation more than a designated height. 
 
REPETITIVE LOSS - means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on 
two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at 
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the 
market value of the structure before the damage occurred. 
 
RIVERINE – means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including 
tributaries), stream, brook, etc. 
 
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA – see Area of Special Flood Hazard 
 
START OF CONSTRUCTION -  (for other than new construction or substantial 
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), 
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was 
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, 
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days 
of the permit date.  The actual start means either the first placement of 
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or 
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work 
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a 
foundation.  Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such 
as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets 
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers 
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the 
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds 
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a 
                                        10 substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first 
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, 
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.  
 
STRUCTURE – means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and 
roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above 
ground, as well as a manufactured home. 
 
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - means damage of any origin sustained by a 
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged 
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure 
before the damage occurred. 
 
Substantial damage also means flood related damage sustained by a structure 
on two  (2) separate  occasions  during  a  10-year  period  for  which  the  cost  of 
repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 
25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. 
 
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, 
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or 
exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before "start of 
construction" of the improvement.  This term includes structures which have 
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. 
The term does not, however, include either: (1) Any project for improvement of 
a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or 
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code 
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living 
conditions or (2) Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the 
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic 
structure."   
 
Any  reconstruction,  rehabilitation,  addition,  or  other  improvement  of  a 
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of 
the structure before  the "start of construction" of the improvement. When the 
combined total of all  improvements or repairs made after the adoption of this 
Regulations  equals  or  exceeds  50 percent  of  a  structure’s  market  value,  that 
structure is considered to be substantially improved. 
 
SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION – changes to the approved Plans, plat, and/or 
drainage  report  or  change  of  use  that  will  increase  impervious  cover,  or  the 
volume and/or peak discharge of the stormwater runoff from portions of, or the 
whole of the project or any other change that would affect the volume or peak 
discharge  of  stormwater  runoff  that  would  cause  adverse  impacts  to  off‐ site 
properties. 
 
                                        11 UNINCORPORATED AREA - the area in Grimes County, Texas, that is not within 
an incorporated area of a city, town, or village. 
 
VARIANCE – means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a 
floodplain management regulation.  (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of 
the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.) 
 
VIOLATION - means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully 
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.  A 
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other 
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), 
(c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until 
such time as that documentation is provided. 
 
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION - means the height, in relation to the National 
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of 
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or 
riverine areas. 
 
 
                                   ARTICLE 3 
 
                            GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION A.  LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCEORDER APPLIES 
 
The ordinanceOrder shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the 
jurisdiction unincporated areas of Grimes County. 
 
SECTION B.  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD 
HAZARD 
 
Grimes  County  hereby  adopts  by  reference  and  declares  the  following  as  the 
basis for regulation: 
   1. The  areas  of  special  flood  hazard  identified  by  the  Federal  Emergency 
      Management  Agency  in  the  current  scientific  and  engineering  report 
      entitled,  “The  Flood  Insurance  Study  (FIS)  for  Grimes  County  and 
      Incorporated  Areas,"   dated  April  3,  2012,  with  accompanying  Flood 
      Insurance  Rate  Maps  (FIRM)  dated  April  3,  2012,   and  any  revisions 
      thereto; and 
   2. The Base Level Engineering analysis for FEMA Region 6 to include the 1% 
      flood depth layers and associated elevations and cross sections. 
 
The  basis  for  regulation  resulting  in  the  most  impactful  reduction  in  flood 
damage risk shall apply. 
                                        12                                                                                          Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
      The  areas  of  special  flood  hazard  identified  by  the  Federal  Emergency    Formatted: Normal,  No bullets or numbering
      Management  Agency  in  the  current  scientific  and  engineering  report         Formatted: List Paragraph, Justified
      entitled,  “The  Flood  Insurance  Study  (FIS)  for   Grimes  County  and 
      Incorporated  Areas,"   dated  April  3,  2012,  with  accompanying  Flood 
      Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated April 3, 2012 and any revisions thereto 
      are  hereby  adopted  by  reference  and  declared  to  be  a  part  of  this 
      ordinance. 
 
SECTION C.  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 
 
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required for any type of development 
as defined in Article 2 of this Order to ensure conformance with the provisions 
of this ordinanceOrder. 
    
SECTION D.  COMPLIANCE 
 
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, 
converted, altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the 
terms of this ordinanceOrder and other applicable regulations. 
 
The connection of land with permanent water, sewer, electricity, and gas utility 
service is hereby prohibited  until the property complies with rules adopted by 
these Regulations and with other applicable Regulations. 
 
SECTION E.  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS 
 
This ordinanceOrder is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing 
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.  However, where this 
ordinanceOrder and another ordinanceOrder, easement, covenant, or deed 
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent 
restrictions shall prevail. 
 
SECTION F.  INTERPRETATION 
 
In the interpretation and application of this ordinanceOrder, all provisions 
shall be; (1) considered as minimum requirements; (2) liberally construed in 
favor of the governing body; and (3) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any 
other powers granted under State statutes. 
 
SECTION G.  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY 
 
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinanceOrder is considered 
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering 
considerations.  On rare occasions greaterGreater floods can and will occur 
                                        13 and flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.  This 
ordinanceOrder does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood 
hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood 
damages.  This ordinanceOrder shall not create liability on the part of the 
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result 
from reliance on this ordinanceOrder or any administrative decision lawfully 
made hereunder. 
 
                                   ARTICLE 4 
 
                               ADMINISTRATION 
 
SECTION A.  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR 
 
The County Engineer or his/her designee is hereby appointed the Floodplain 
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this 
ordinanceOrder and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency 
Management and Assistance - National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) 
pertaining to floodplain management. 
 
The County Engineer and/or the appointed Floodplain Administrator, or their 
designee,  are  granted  authority  by  the  Grimes  County  Commissioners  Court 
under  authority  granted  by  44  CFR  §  60  to  ensure  compliance  with  these 
Regulations. 
 
The County Engineer and/or the appointed Floodplain Administrator, or their 
designee, have the right to enter any property or structure to perform any duties 
or  responsibilities  imposed  by  these  Regulations    in  any  situation  where 
reasonable access is not granted upon request by Grimes County. 
 
 
SECTION B.  DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN 
ADMINISTRATOR 
 
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following: 
 
    (1) Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to 
the provisions of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (2) Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the 
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured 
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding. 
 

                                        14     (3) Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits     
required by adoption of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (4) Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary 
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental 
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required. 
 
    (5) Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the       
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there 
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field 
conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary 
interpretation. 
 
    (6) Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State   
Coordinating Agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and 
also the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any 
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such 
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
 
    (7) Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated 
portion of any watercourse is maintained. 
 
    (8) When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance   
with Article 3, Section B, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and 
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available 
from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of 
Article 5. 
 
    (9) When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain   
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial 
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within 
Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that 
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all 
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface 
elevation of the base flood more than one foot0.1 foot at any point within the 
community. 
 
    (10) Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the      
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve 
certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which 
increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than 1 foot, 
provided that the community first completes all of the provisions required by 
Section 65.12.  
 
                                        15  
 
SECTION C.  PERMIT PROCEDURES                                                            Formatted: Highlight
 
    (1) Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to            Formatted: Tab stops:  0.31", Left + Not at  0.75"
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, 
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, 
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and 
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the 
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.  
Additionally, the following information is required: 
 
         (a) Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor 
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; 
 
         (b) Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential 
structure shall be floodproofed;  
 
         (c) A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect 
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing 
criteria of Article 5, Section B (2); 
 
         (d) Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural 
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; 
 
         (e) Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with 
Article 4, Section (B)(1); 
 
    (2) Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the 
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this 
ordinanceOrder and the following relevant factors: 
 
         (a) The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage; 
 
         (b) The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood 
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner; 
 
         (c) The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the 
injury of others; 
 
         (d) The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated 
development; 
 
         (e) The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary 
and emergency vehicles; 
                                        16  
           (f) The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood 
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public 
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems; 
 
           (g) The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment 
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, 
expected at the site; 
 
           (h) The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where 
applicable; 
 
           (i) The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or 
erosion damage, for the proposed use. 
 
SECTION D.  VARIANCE PROCEDURES 
 
The Commissioners’ Court may grant variances from these regulations according to the procedures defined 
in this section. 
 
Anyone who wishes to request a variance must apply in writing to the County’s Representative who will 
coordinate with the appropriate Commissioner and request that consideration of such variance be placed 
on the agenda of the Court with a recommendation whether the variance should be granted or denied. All 
variance requests submitted  must  be  specific  and  in  a  written  format.  A detailed description should  be 
attached with the written request along with all pertinent information and fees. The variance request must 
be signed and dated by the developer or his/her designated representative.  
 
If the variance involves land in a municipality’s ETJ the developer must contact and obtain the approval of 
the appropriate jurisdiction(s) for any variance.  
 
The County Commissioners’ Court may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in its opinion, 
undue hardship will result from requiring strict compliance with these regulations. In granting a variance, 
the Commissioners’ Court shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary or desirable to the public 
interest. In making the findings required below, the Commissioners’ Court shall take into account the nature 
of the proposed use of land involved, existing uses of land in the vicinity, the number of persons who will 
reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of such variances upon traffic conditions 
and upon the public health, safety, convenience and welfare in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted 
unless the Commissioners’ Court finds:  
 
   A. That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land involved such that the strict 
      application of these regulations would deprive that applicant of the reasonable use of his land.  
       
   B. That  the  granting  of  the  variance  will  not  be  detrimental  to  the  public  health,  safety,  welfare  or 
      injurious to other property in the area.  
       
   C. That the granting of the variance will not have the effect of preventing the orderly subdivision of other 
      land in the area in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.  
 
Such findings of the Commissioners’ Court together with the specified facts upon which such findings are 
based, shall be incorporated into the official minutes of the Commissioners’ Court meeting at which such 
                                               17 variance is considered. Variances may be granted only when in harmony with the general purpose and 
intent of these regulations so that the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and substantial 
justice  done.  Pecuniary  hardship  to  the  subdivider, standing  alone,  shall  not  be  deemed  to  constitute 
hardship. No request will be considered until a written request has been submitted outlining the specific 
variance(s) from these regulations.  
 
The decision of the Commissioners’ Court to grant or to deny a variance is at its sole discretion. 
 
    (1) The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and 
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this 
ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (2) The Appeal BoardCommissioners Court shall hear and render judgment 
on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, 
decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the 
enforcement or administration of this ordinanceOrder.   
 
    (3) Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal 
BoardCommissioners Court may appeal such decision in the courts of 
competent jurisdiction. 
 
    (4) The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions 
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency upon request. 
 
    (5) Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or 
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the 
State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set forth in 
the remainder of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (6) Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial 
improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to 
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base 
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section C (2) of this Article have 
been fully considered.  As the lot size increases beyond the 1/2 acre, the 
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases. 
 
    (7) Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this 
ordinanceOrder, the Appeal BoardCommissioners Court may attach such 
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the 
purpose and objectives of this ordinanceOrder (Article 1, Section C). 
 
    (8) Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any 
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result. 
 

                                        18     (9) Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic 
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will 
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and 
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and 
design of the structure. 
 
    (10) Prerequisites for granting variances: 
 
         (a) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the 
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford 
relief. 
 
         (b) Variances shall only be issued upon:  
                    
                   (i) showing a good and sufficient cause;  
                   (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would 
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and  
                   (iii) a determination that the granting of a variance will not 
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, 
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization 
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinanceOrders. 
 
         (c) Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given 
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest 
floor elevation below the base floodrequired finished floor elevation, and that 
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk 
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. 
 
    (11) Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and 
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct 
of a functionally dependent use provided that (i) the criteria outlined in Article 
4, Section D (1)-(9) are met, and (ii) the structure or other development is 
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and 
create no additional threats to public safety. 
 
 
 
 
                                   ARTICLE 5 
 
 
               PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION 
 
SECTION A.  GENERAL STANDARDS 
 
                                        19 In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for all 
new construction and substantial improvements: 
 
    (1) All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or 
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral 
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, 
including the effects of buoyancy; 
 
    (2) All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed 
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; 
 
    (3) All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed 
with materials resistant to flood damage; 
 
    (4) All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed 
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment 
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located to meet the 
required lowest finished floor elevation so as to prevent water from entering or 
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding; 
 
    (5) All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to 
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;  
 
    (6) New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to 
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge 
from the systems into flood waters; and,  
 
    (7) On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to 
them or contamination from them during flooding. 
 
SECTION B.  SPECIFIC STANDARDS 
 
In all unincorporated areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation 
data has been providedGrimes County as set forth in (i) Article 3, Section B, (ii) 
Article 4, Section B (8), or (iii) Article 5, Section C (3), the following provisions 
are required: 
 
No development or encroachment, including fill, is allowed in Zone A in a 
manner that will result in an increase over 0.1 foot in the base flood elevations 
within the floodway during discharge of the base flood when considering all 
existing, proposed, and future development in the watershed 
 
Fill may not be used to elevate any structure within the 100-year floodplain 
(FEMA FIRM/FIS) or where the depth of flooding during the base flood is 3.0 
feet or more (FEMA BLE). 
                                        20                
               
(1)  (1) Residential Construction                                                    Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
      a.  Zone A or BLE 1% Flood Extent - new construction and                       Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt, Bold
         substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have             Formatted: List Paragraph, Numbered + Level: 1 +
         the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to or above thea            Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left +
                                                                                     Aligned at:  0.33" + Indent at:  0.59"
         minimum of two (2) above the base flood elevation, two (2) feet 
                                                                                     Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
         above the crown of the road, or two (2) feet above highest adjacent 
         grade, whichever is higher..  A Texas-licensedregistered 
         professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a 
         certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of 
         this subsection as proposed in Article 4, Section C (1) a., is 
         satisfied.   
    
        Fill may not be used to elevate residential structures within special        Formatted: Indent: Left:  0.59",  No bullets or numbering
   flood hazard area where the depth of flooding during the base flood is 
   more than 3.0 feet.  Where the depth of flooding is greater than 3.0 feet, 
   structures may be constructed on an open foundation, such as piers, or 
   on continuous foundation walls with propertly sized and located 
   opening.  Foundations are required to be designed by a Texas-licensed 
   professional engineer.  The plans shall clearly show compliance with all 
   provisions of this Order. 
          
                                                                                     Formatted: Indent: Left:  1.08",  No bullets or numbering
      b. Zone X (areas outside FIRM Zone A or BLE 1% Flood Extent) -                 Formatted: Font: Bold
         new construction and substantial improvement of any residential 
         structure shall elevate the lowest floor 12 inches above the                Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
         highest adjacent grade when measured 10 feet from the edge of 
         the slab, or 12 inches above the crown of the adjacent street, 
         whichever results in the highest elevation. 
                                                                                     Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
                                                                                     Formatted: Normal,  No bullets or numbering
         Properties sloping away from the road are exempt from the crown             Formatted: Indent: Left:  1.08",  No bullets or numbering
         elevation requirement and must construct and maintain adequate 
         drainage paths to guide flood waters around the structure and to 
         prevent flood waters from entering the structure. 
          
         Residential structures other than a single-family residence on a 
         concrete slab foundation shall elevate the top of the slab to 6 
         inches above adjacent grade. 
          
         In any area that has been removed from the floodplain via a Letter 
         of Map Revision, any existing or new structure, addition, or 
         substantial improvement must meet the required elevation 
         freeboard requirements of the underlying flood hazard elevation. 
                                    21               
 
 
    (2)  (2) Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial              Formatted: Font: Bookman Old Style, 12 pt
       improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential                Formatted: List Paragraph, Numbered + Level: 1 +
                                                                                         Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left +
       structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement)                 Aligned at:  0.33" + Indent at:  0.59"
       elevated to or a minimum of two (2) feet above the base flood level or 
       together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so 
       that below the minimum two (2) feet above the base flood level the 
       structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the 
       passage of water and with structural components having the capability 
       of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of 
       buoyancy.  A registered Texas-licensed professional engineer or 
       architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, 
       and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and 
       methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of 
       practice as outlined in this subsection.  A record of such certification 
       which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to 
       which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the 
       Floodplain Administrator. 
                                                                                         Formatted: List Paragraph, Indent: Left:  0.59"
Reference “Requirements for the Design and Certification of Dry Floodproofed 
Non-Residential and Mixed-Use Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard 
Areas in Accordance with the National Flood Insurance Program” NFIP 
Technical Bulletin 3 / January 2021. 
 
    (3) Enclosures - new construction and substantial improvements, with 
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of 
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and 
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize 
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of 
floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a 
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following 
minimum criteria: 
 
         (a) A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net 
area of not less than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area 
subject to flooding shall be provided. 
 
         (b) The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above 
grade. 
 
         (c) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other 
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of 
floodwaters. 
                                        22  
Reference FEMA NFIP Technical Bulletin 1 “Requirements for Flood Openings 
in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures” 
 
 
    (4) Manufactured Homes -  
 
         (a) Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A 
on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and 
practices which minimize flood damage.  For the purposes of this requirement, 
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, 
collapse, or lateral movement.  Methods of anchoring may include, but are not 
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.  This 
requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements 
for resisting wind forces. 
 
         (b) Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially 
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i) 
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new 
manufactured home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing 
manufactured home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured 
home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred 
"substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent 
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to 
or a minimum of two (2) feet above the base flood elevation and be securely 
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, 
collapse, and lateral movement. 
 
         (c) Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially 
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with 
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the 
provisions of paragraph (4) of this section be elevated so that either:that: 
 
            (i) the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or abovetwo (2) 
feet above  the base flood elevation, two (2) feet above natural grade, or two (2)  
feet above the crown of the nearest street, whichever is higher, andor  
 
            (ii) the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced        
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no 
less than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an 
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral 
movement. 
 
Reference FEMA P-85 “Protecting Manufactured Homes from Floods and Other 
Hazards” 
                                        23  
 
    (5) Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreational vehicles placed on 
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either (i) be on 
the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, or (ii) be fully licensed and ready 
for highway use, or (iii) meet the permit requirements of Article 4, Section C (1), 
and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in 
paragraph (4) of this section.  A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if 
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick 
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently 
attached additions. 
 
    Properties in the SFHA containing sites for 2 or more Recreational Vehicles 
shall ensure that vehicle pads are elevated appropriately so that Recreational 
Vehicles meet the elevation requirements of residential construction. 
 
    6.   Accessory Structures - Small detached structures (garages, storage 
sheds) may be exempt from the freeboard requirements if they are not used for 
human habitation; designed to have low flood damage potential; firmly 
anchored and placed on the building site in a way that presents minimum 
resistance to flood flows; constructed with electrical and other services 
mounted above or  floodproofed to the flood hazard elevation; and fitted with 
openings that allow the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. 
 
    7. Access (Ingress/Egress) - New development proposals will be designed, 
to the maximum extent practicable, so both residential and non-residential 
building sites, walkways, driveways, and roadways are located on land with a 
natural grade with elevation not less than the base flood elevation and with 
evacuation routes leading directly out of the floodplain area (dryland access). 
 
    8. Reduction of Floodplain Storage – Any development, including fill, 
resulting in reduction in floodplain storage volume within the special flood 
hazard area must be offset with a hydraulically equivalent (1:1) volume of 
mitigation sufficient to offset the reduction, resulting in zero net loss 
of natural floodplain storage. The volume of the loss of floodwater storage due 
to filling in the special flood hazard area shall be offset by providing an equal 
volume of flood storage in the floodplain, by excavation or other compensatory 
measures, at or adjacent to the development site 
 
 
 
SECTION C.  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS 
 


                                        24     (1) All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured 
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article 1, Sections B, C, 
and D of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (2) All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the 
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet 
Floodplain Development Permit requirements of Article 3, Section C; Article 4, 
Section C; and the provisions of Article 5 of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (3) Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals 
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured 
home parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, 
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Article 3, Section B 
or Article 4, Section B (8) of this ordinanceOrder. 
 
    (4) All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured 
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce 
exposure to flood hazards. 
 
    (5) All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured 
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as 
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or 
eliminate flood damage. 
 
SECTION D.  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH 
ZONES) 
 
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Article 3, 
Section B, are areas designated as shallow flooding.  These areas have special 
flood hazards associated with flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined 
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where 
velocity flow may be evident.  Such flooding is characterized by ponding or 
sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply: 
 
    (1) All new construction and substantial improvements of residential 
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the 
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth 
number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth 
number is specified), or 
 
    (2) All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential 
structures; 
 
         (a) have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the 
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth 
                                        25 number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth 
number is specified), or 
 
         (b) together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed 
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the Base 
Flood Elevation in an AH Zone, the structure is watertight with walls 
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural 
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic 
loads of effects of buoyancy. 
 
    (3) A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a 
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this Section, 
as proposed in Article 4, Section C are satisfied. 
 
    (4) Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around 
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed 
structures. 
 
SECTION E.  FLOODWAYS 
 
Floodways – located within areas of special flood hazard established in Article 
3, Section B, are areas designated as floodways.  Since the floodway is an 
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, 
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply: 
 
   (1) Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, 
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted 
regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and 
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice 
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels 
within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. 
 
   (2) If Article 5, Section E (1) above is satisfied, all new construction and 
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard 
reduction provisions of Article 5. 
       
   (3) Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the  
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit 
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an 
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes 
all of the provisions required by Section 65.12. 
 
SECTION F.  SEVERABILITY 
 
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this OrdinanceOrder is held to be 
                                        26 invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said 
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this 
OrdinanceOrder. 
 
SECTION G.  PENALTIES FOR NON COMPLIANCE 
 
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, 
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order 
and other applicable regulations.  Violation of the provisions of this court order 
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of 
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall 
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this court order or fails to 
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not 
more than $500 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and 
expenses involved in the case.  Nothing herein contained shall prevent Grimes 
County Commissioners Court from taking such other lawful action as is 
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. 
 
Grimes County, acting through an attorney representing the County, is hereby             Formatted: Font: Not Bold
authorized to file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to:                    Formatted: Font: Not Bold
                                                                                         Formatted: Font: Not Bold
      (1) Enjoin any person from violating the terms, conditions and 
         restrictions of any permit issued under this chapter: 
                                                                                         Formatted: Indent: Left:  0.5"
      (2) Enjoin the violation of the provisions of this chapter: 
       
      (3) Recover civil penalties for violations of the terms, conditions and 
      restrictions of any permit issued under this article; 
       
      (4) Recover civil penalties for violations for conditions of this article; or 
       
      (5) Recover damages from the owner of a site in an amount adequate for 
      Grimes County to undertake any construction or other activity necessary 
      to bring about compliance with this chapter. 
 
Grimes County, acting through an attorney representing the County, is hereby             Formatted: Font: Not Bold
authorized to enter into agreements in lieu of litigation to achieve compliance          Formatted: Font: Not Bold
with the terms, conditions and restrictions of any permit issued under this              Formatted: Font: Not Bold
article or the provisions of this article. 
 
(c) The County Engineer is authorized to: 
                                                                                         Formatted: Indent: Left:  0.33"
    (1) Whenever any work authorized by a permit is being performed contrary 
    to the provisions of this chapter, or other pertinent laws or ordinances 
    implement through the enforcement of this article, order the work (other 
                                        27     than work to cure a violation) stopped by notice in writing served on any 
    persons performing the work or causing the work to be performed. Any 
    such persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the County 
    Engineer to proceed with the work. 
 
    (2) At the time a stop order is issued, the person performing the work and           Formatted: Indent: Left:  0.31"
    the permit holder shall be given notice of a right to an appeal to the County 
    Commissioner. Upon request, such a hearing shall be held within three                Formatted: Font: Not Bold
    business days unless the permit holder or person who was performing the 
    work requests an extension of time. Any stop order that has been issued 
    shall remain in effect pending any hearing that has been requested unless 
    the stop order is withdrawn by the County Engineer. 
 
 
SECTION H.  CERTIFICATION OF ADOPTION 
 
 
APPROVED: ______________________________________________                                                                     
Betty ShiflettJoe Fauth III 
Grimes County Judge  
 
PASSED:    March 13,2012                      
                 (adoption date) 
 
ORDINANCEORDER BECOMES EFFECTIVE: April 3DATE, 20122025 
                                                          (effective date) 
 
 
 
I, the undersigned, County Clerk, do hereby certify that the above is a true and 
correct copy of an ordinanceOrder duly adopted by the Grimes County 
Commissioners Court, at a regular meeting duly convened on March 13DATE, 
2025, 2012. 
             
 
                                     
 _________________________________ 
 David PasketBarbara Kimich                                                   


                                                                                    

                                        28         Grimes County Floodplain Development Permit Application 
                                                        
   The Grimes County Floodplain Development Permit is required for all development. 
 This application must be completed by the property owner or their legal representative. 
                                                        
 
1.  Owner/Legal Representative                              2.  Development Location 
                                                            https://gis.bisclient.com/grimescad/ 
Name  _________________________________                     Address  _______________________________ 
Email Address  __________________________                   State  _____   City  _______________________ 
Phone  ________________________________                     Zip  ____________ 
Address  _______________________________                    Property ID R#__________ 
State  _____  City  _______________________                 Acreage  _______________ ac 
Zip  _____________                                          Optional 
                                                            Subdivision  ____________________________ 
                                                            Lot     _____  Block  ______  Phase ________ 
                                                             
3.  Type of Development (select one):   ___  New Development        ___  Addition to Existing Development 
Select One: 
        ___  Residential – Single Family Home               ___  Residential – Duplex 
        ___  Residential – Multi-family                     ___  Residential – Manufactured Home 
        ___  Residential Subdivision                        ___  Manufactured Home Community 
        ___  Commercial - Residential                       ___  Commercial – Business 
        ___  Commercial – Industrial                        ___  Commercial – Agricultural 
        ___  Other: ____________________________________________________________________ 
 
Name and brief description of the project: 
 
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
4. Water Service: ___ Public Water  ___  Private Well         Sewage Treatment: ___  Public Sewer ___ On-Site Septic 
*a letter verifying intent to provide service is required for public water and public septic systems. 
Electric Service:  ___  Existing  ___  Available (vicinity) ___   
*an intent to serve letter is required 
 
5.  Is the property in a Floodplain? – see page 5 for instructions 
FIRM - FEMA Map Service Center - https://msc.fema.gov/portal/home 
___  Yes         ___  No           
FEMA BLE estBFE Viewer - https://webapps.usgs.gov/infrm/estbfe/ 
___  Yes ___  No 
If any part of the property is in a floodplain, fill out Page 2.  Attach a site plan, drawing, or sketch (hand-drawn) of the 
property, the floodplain boundary, and the proposed development site plan (example page 4). 
 

                                                  Page 1 of 5 
 6.  Will the structure or development be located in a Floodplain?    
FEMA Map Service Center (see Page 2 for instructions)       ___  Yes ___  No          
FEMA BLE estBFE Viewer (see Page 2 for instructions)        ___  Yes ___  No 
*if Yes is checked for either entry, complete Section A below.  If No is checked for both entries, complete Section B below. 

6A. Zone A or BLE 1% Flood Extent – Inspection is Required - $100 Permit Fee 
Residential Structures: 
Base Flood Elevation: _________feet NAVD 
Required lowest finished floor elevation: _________feet NAVD 
    -   2-ft above BFE, 2-ft above crown of adjacent road, or 2-ft above highest adjacent grade, whichever is higher 
    -   Utilities must be elevated at or above the required finished floor elevation. 
Nonresidential Floodproofed Construction: 
Type of floodproofing method: ________________________________________________________ 
Required floodproofing elevation: _________feet NAVD 
    -   Engineer or Architect certificate of floodproofing is required. 

6B. Zone X (areas outside Zone A or BLE 1% Flood Extent) – Inspection not required - $0 Permit Fee 
Residential Structures: 
 
1.  The lowest finished floor must be elevated 12 inches above the highest adjacent grade when measured 10 feet 
    from the edge of the slab, or 12 inches above the crown of the adjacent street, whichever results in the highest 
    elevation. 
     
2.  Properties sloping away from the road are exempt from the crown elevation requirement and must construct and 
    maintain adequate drainage paths to guide flood waters around the structure and to prevent flood waters from 
    entering the structure. 
 
3.  Residential structures other than a single-family residence on a concrete slab foundation shall elevate the top of 
    the slab to 6 inches above adjacent grade.  
 
4.  Residential construction requires a Notice of Residential Construction and Notice of Residential Inspection to 
    certify compliance with International Residential Code 2021. 
 
I acknowledge the requirements for residential construction in Zone X:  ____________ (initial) 

Commercial Development must comply with the Grimes County Infrastructure Regulations. 

 
7.  I acknowledge that the responsibility for verifying and applying for local, state, and federal permits is the 
    responsibility of the property owner and that applicable permits were obtained prior to application  
for this floodplain development permit.                                       
                                                                             ______________ (initial) 
 
 
8.  I  certify  that  the  information  on  this  form  is  true and correct.  I  understand that  false  or inaccurate  information 
    submitting to Grimes County on which a permit for proceeding with construction work is issued by Grimes County 
    may be the basis for revocation of the permit or assessment of a civil fine not to exceed $500. I also understand 
    that construction plans submitted to and approved by Grimes County in the form of a permit issued by Grimes 
    County must be followed and adhered to and any deviance there from not approved by Grimes County may also 
    be the basis for a notice of violation, notice of citation and revocation of the permit or assessment of a fine not to 
    exceed $500 by the county. 
 
 
Applicant Signature: _______________________________________________________________ 

                                                  Page 2 of 5 
 Office Use Only 
 
Residential            Structure or Development is in a Floodplain  Yes  ___       No  ___ 
FIRM (select one)      Yes  ___       No  ___          FEMA BLE (select one) Yes  ___     No  ___ 
FEMA BLE Flood Depth  
___  ≤ 1-foot          ___  > 1-2 feet       ___  > 2-3 feet        ___  > 3-4 feet              
___  > 4-5 feet        ___  > 5 feet 
Notes: 
 
 
Required prior to Floodplain Development Permit Approval: 
___  Driveway Permit 
___  Notice of Residential Construction & Notice of Residential Inspection (IRC 2021) 
 
Structures in Zone A or 1% BLE Flood Extent - Required Submittal Documents: 
___  Property Survey 
___  Surveyor Certification of Finished Floor Elevation (Residential) or Engineer or Architect certification 
of floodproofing (Commercial) 
___  Engineer signed & sealed plans showing compliance with Grimes County Floodplain Order.   
___  No-Rise Certificate (Commercial) 
___  Residential Structures may not be elevated on fill in areas of 3+ feet flood depth. 
___  Inspection Required  
 
Commercial Development – Required Prior to Floodplain Development Permit Approval: 
___  Plat                        ___  Driveway Permit(s)              ___  Cattle Guard Permit 
___  Plans                       ___  Special Road Use Agreement      ___  OSSF 
___  Drainage Report             ___  Utility Installation Permit     ___  LOMR or LOMR-F 
 
 
 
 
Reviewed By: ___________________________________________  Date: _______________________ 
 
Floodplain Development Permit Approved 
 
 
 
 
_______________________________________________________  Date: _______________________ 
 
 
 
 
 

                                             Page 3 of 5 
  Example Site Plan: 
 
 


                                                                                                           
 
 

                                             Page 4 of 5 
  FEMA Map Service Center 
 
    1.  Go to the FEMA Flood Map Service Center website: https://msc.fema.gov/portal/home 
    2.  Enter an address in the “Enter an Address…” box  
    3.  If the red locator is within Zone A, check “Yes” on the Floodplain Development Permit Application 
        Section 5 under FIRM - FEMA Map Service Center.  Follow the same instructions for the structure 
        or development in Section 6. 
            a. If no address exists for the property, enter a City or Grimes County and use the dynamic 
               map to find the property. 
    4.  Only a few locations in Grimes County have detailed studies.  In these areas, an Engineer or 
        Surveyor should use the FEMA FIRM/FIS to determine the Base Flood Elevation. 
    5.  An Engineer or Surveyor may use  FEMA Bulletin 265 Managing Floodplain Development in 
        Approximate Zone A Areas Chapter 5 Simplified Methods - Contour Interpolation to determine the 
        Base Flood Elevation.  Attach all supporting documents and calculations. 
               or 
        Follow the instructions for FEMA BLE – estBFE Viewer in the next section to determine the Base 
        Flood Elevation 
 
 
FEMA BLE - estBFE Viewer: 
  
    6.  Go to the FEMA INFRM estBFE viewer website: https://webapps.usgs.gov/infrm/estbfe/ 
    7.  Click “Select an Area of Interest: 
            a. Select FEMA Region 6 (Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas) 
    8.  The “Estimate Base Flood Elevation Viewer” window will open. 
            a. Select “What’s My Flood Risk?” 
    9.  On the left window, enter an address in the “Find a place” box 
               or 
        Select “Map Click” and click on the exact map location of the structure. 
    10. A Flood Risk window will open.  If the window says “This location is in a 1% (100 year) flood 
        zone, check “Yes” on Floodplain Development Permit Application Section 5 under FEMA BLE 
        estBFE Viewer.  Follow the same instructions for the structure or development in Section 6. 
            a. If the Flood Risk window says “Base Level Engineering Data Unavailable”, check “No” on 
               Section 5 under FEMA BLE estBFE Viewer.  Follow the same instructions for the 
               structure or development in Section 6. 
    11. Click “View Report”  
    12. Click “Print” in the top-left corner.  Attach Page 1 of the report to the Floodplain Development 
        Permit Application. 
    13. For properties and structures in the 1% (100-year) flood zone, the Report gives Estimated Base 
        Flood Elevation data.  Enter the 1 Percent (100 Year) Estimated Base Flood Elevation (BFE) in 
        Section 6A of the Floodplain Development Permit Application. 
            a. Add 2 feet to the BFE in the “Required Lowest Finished Floor Elevation” field in Section 6 
            b. Add 2 feet to the “ Required Floodproofing Elevation” field, if applicable. 


                                             Page 5 of 5 
              Summary of Changes - Grimes County Floodplain Order 
                                  TBD 2025 
 
Changed Title to Flood Damage Prevention Order (from Ordinance). 
 
Reference Texas Water Code 11.086 throughout. 
 
Updated, Added, and Deleted Definitions: 
  -  Added Accessory Structure 
  -  Added Addition 
  -  Added Administratively Complete 
  -  Added Base Level Engineering (BLE) 
  -  Added Buildable Area 
  -  Added County Engineer 
  -  Added Critical Facility 
  -  Updated Development 
  -  Added Drainage 
  -  Added Elevation 
  -  Added Elevation Certificate 
  -  Added Fill 
  -  Added Floodplain Administrator 
  -  Updated Lowest Floor 
  -  Added Natural Grade or Natural Ground 
  -  Added Permit 
  -  Added Plan 
  -  Added Repetitive Loss 
  -  Updated Substantial Damage 
  -  Updated Substantial Improvement 
  -  Added Substantial Modification 
  -  Added Unincorporated Area 
 
Updated the Order to apply to all unincorporated areas of Grimes County. 
 
Updated regulatory maps, adding FEMA Base Level Engineering analysis. 
 
Added a requirement for a floodplain development permit for any type of development. 
 
Added a rule that utility connection is prohibited until a floodplain development permit is 
issued.  
 
Granted authority to the County Engineer and their designee to enforce the regulations 
and enter property when necessary to enforce the regulations.  
Updated Variance  Procedures to  match  recently  approved  Infrastructure  Regulations 
(June 2025) Variances and Appeals section. 
 
Updated limit of cumulative effect of proposed development from 1-ft increase to base 
flood water surface elevation to 0.10-ft.  
 
Updated the requirement for using fill to elevate a structure.  Fill may not be used to 
elevate any structure within the 100-year floodplain (FEMA FIRM/FIS) or where the 
depth of flooding during the base flood is 3.0 feet or more (FEMA BLE). 
 
Increased freeboard requirement for structures in the 100-year floodplain from 1-ft above 
base flood elevation to a minimum of two (2) above the base flood elevation, two (2) feet 
above the crown of the road, or two (2) feet above highest adjacent grade, whichever is 
higher 
 
Added  requirement  for  structures  in  certain  locations  within  the  Special  Flood  Hazard 
Area to be constructed on piers or continuous foundation with flood vents. 
 
Added  requirement  for  structures  in  Zone  X  to  be  elevated  12-inches  above  highest 
adjacent grade or 12 inches above the crown of the street, whichever is higher. 
 
Added references  to  FEMA  Bulletins  for  floodproofing  of  structures,  design of  flood 
openings in foundation walls, and protecting manufactured homes. 
 
Increased  elevation  requirements  for  manufactured  homes  to  2-ft  above  base  flood 
elevation. 
 
Require that vehicle pads for 2 or more RVs be elevated appropriately. 
 
Exempted  freeboard  requirements  for  accessory  structures  if  constructed  to  prevent 
impacts to surrounding structures. 
 
Required design of access to allow ingress/egress from structures in the Special Flood 
Hazard Area. 
 
Added a 1:1 fill requirement in the Special Flood Hazard Area to ensure zero reduction in 
floodplain storage. 
 
Clarified penalties for noncompliance to allow Grimes County to prosecute violators and 
recover civil penalties and damages. 
 
Authorize  the  County  Engineer  to  issue  stop  work  notices.  Allowed  an  appeal  to  the 
Precinct Commissioner to resume work. 
 
 