                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                    Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
County Judge Joe Fauth III called the meeting to order at 9:00 am Wednesday, January 21, 2026. 

Invocation 

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need 
to submit a Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public 
comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person. 
Public Comments: Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd: Update on Jail septic problem has been 
corrected and inmates returned by to Grimes County. Thank you to Montgomery County for the assistance to house 
inmates that had to be re-located. Reminder to employees about the freezing temperatures for the upcoming 
weekend, if you see any water dripping please leave it as you find it.  
Judge Joe Fauth III: To citizens please use extreme caution if you have to be on the roads. This weekend is Go 
Texan which is a major event, which many will be attending so stay safe on the highways. 

Consent Agenda Items 
Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve Consent Agenda Items 1-5. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 

1.   Approve an Order Establishing a School Zone and Reducing the Speed Limit on County Roads in Richards, 
     Texas. 

2.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

3.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 4.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

5.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services (will present 02/04/2026) 
     Veteran Services - Jay Lafferty: December activities. 12 phone conversations, 5 came into the office and 3 
     emails. December is usually a slower month with the holidays. Attended annual training, required 12 hours 
     per year. Some topics covered are some unmistakable errors appealing a claim, supplemental claims if 
     something needs to be added to a claim, higher level review, if decision is contested how to take it to a higher 
     level. Hearings before a judge or zoom hearings. The training allows Mr. Lafferty to stay certified to assist 
     Veterans. 
     Emergency Management Services - Dione Bumpous is attending meetings. 
      

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, 
     Elections, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of 
     Commerce, Bluebonnet Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory 
     Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet 
     Maintenance Committee 
     County Judge - Joe Fauth III: Recognized Rodney and his maintenance team for being there on the holiday to 
     work on issues that are easier to take care of without employees occupying the buildings.  
     HR: If you are seeking employment, Judge Fauth encourages you to go to the County webpage for all job 
     opportunities that are listed.  
     Emergency Management: Judge Fauth stated there was the potential of a spill on 244, were able to find out 
     who was responsible, with the spill response company under contract with the County, were able to get it 
     cleaned up with no problems or cost to the County. 
     Elections: Judge Fauth stated they were at a conference the previous week that pertained to HB 2753 which is 
     modifying Early Voting periods, extending them through the weekends prior to election day, but still in 
     review so nothing will occur in 2026. 
     Commissioner Pct 2 - David Tullos: 
     Commissioner Pct 3 - Michael Raska: 
     Commissioner Pct 4 - Phillip Cox: Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd updated Commissioner 
     Cox on the Expo and Fairgrounds lease of advertising will be in the Navasota Examiner from January 21st - 
     January 28th, on FB with over 5000 views. Events include the Republican debates, Waller 4H Jackpot Cattle 
     Show, Go Texan this upcoming weekend and 4H Food Show and Grimes County Extension Office 
     Continuing Education classes. In regards to the Ambulances, still working. 2025 Grimes County went 575 
     times without having an ambulance available. Not a panic situation as other ambulances are called in and 
     maneuvered to cover these areas.  

Grimes County Constables - James Ellis Pct. 1, Blake Jarvis Pct. 2, Gary Bender Pcts. 3 & 4 (JF) 

8.   Receive the Grimes County Constable Pct 1, 2 and 3/4 Racial Profiling reports for 2025. 
     Grimes County Precinct 2 - Blake Jarvis: Commissioner Phillip Cox asked on the Precinct 3,4 Profiling 
     Report 67 traffic stops, in a presentation in October at the Sheriffs Dept Citizen Academy, Precinct 3,4 
     listed156 traffic stops. Jennifer Crenshaw was asked to come to the podium to answer Commissioner Cox.      She stated that the copies of the 67 citations is what was turned over to her and that is what she has reported. 
     She cannot speak for the remaining citations if she does not have copies of them. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

9.   Discuss and consider approval of a resolution authorizing submission of a grant application to the Office of 
     the Governor of the State of Texas for the purchase of Rifle Resistant Body Armor for the Grimes County 
     Sheriff’s Office and authorizing the County Judge to serve as the authorized official and signatory. 
     Grimes County Sheriffs Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith: All law enforcements body armor is not rifle 
     rated ballistic protection. Requesting permission from the Court to apply for a grant for type of body armor 
     the Sheriffs Dept would like to purchase. 
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve authorizing submission of a grant application the Office of the Governor 
     of the State of Texas for the purchase of Rifle Resistant Body Armor for the Grimes County Sheriffs Office 
     and authorizing the County Judge to serve as the authorized official and signatory. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF) 

10.  Discuss and take action to auction, recycle, or scrap surplus items. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd: Recently cleaned out the Sheriffs Office where DPS and 
     Pct 2 Justice of the Peace were housed. Recycled and refurbished all that was salvageable including some 
     desks and file cabinets. Requesting to burn any remaining that cannot be salvaged such as some desk tops 
     with no bottoms. County Auditor Jessie Murphy requested a list for her office of what is being disposed of so 
     it can be removed from the County's inventory. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve Facilities Maintenance Manager Rodney Floyd to continue with recycling 
     and scrapping of the surplus materials. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
      Motion Passed 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (DT/JF/MR) 

11.  Road Department Report. 
     Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Road & Bridge maintenance to include base repair, pothole patching, 
     tree removal and clean up, boom mowing, shredding/mowing. Disposed of large brush pile at the FM 2445 
     yard and hauled off furniture and garbage on CR 419 420 blocking drainage. Ditch work, culvert/cross culvert 
     installation and installed delineators/signage. All of the above represents 100's of hours of work. Reminding 
     Court with the upcoming weather Road & Bridge will be on call 24/7. Any issues please contact Sheriffs 
     Dispatch.  
     Platting and Permitting: Hired Kirk Cloyd as the Development Technician. Issued 25 new addresses in 
     December 2025. Met with MidSouth about power connections to unpermitted structures most built without 
     proper notices. Sending letters to Developers with the remedial compliance process. Flyers are on the website 
     in English and Spanish showing guidelines which they must comply with International Residential Code 
     version 2021 adopted by Grimes County on December 18, 2024.  
     Environmental: Clean up event of March 14, 2026. Flyer on social media with event sites and County website 
     Stoneham and Bedias, open tops at all the other 5 sites. Compactors sometimes break in extreme cold 
     weather. That will result in Bedias, Stoneham and Whitehall sites will close at 11:00 am on Saturday 1-24-26, 
     Iola and Whitehall dumpsites Monday 1-26-26. Issued 36 OSSF permits in December 2025. 400 total issued 
     in 2025 surpassing 380 issued issued in 2024. 423 maintenance inspection reports. Processed 144 
     maintenance tracking fee invoices, received 129 new maintenance contracts, received $16,870 in septic 
     review/inspection fees.       Commissioner Pct 2 David Tullos wanted to thank Chad Boney with TxDot for taking time to meet with him 
     and wanted to know if a follow up meeting has been scheduled for end of January or 1st of February. Mr. 
     Steiber stated it is being arranged. Also some additional signs are being put up in that area to help give notice 
     of the dangerous intersection. Commissioner Tullos also inquired about the Tawneyberry Grant Project 
     design at 35%, when Engineering Company will have design complete to stay within grant timeline for design 
     and construction. Mr. Steiber will keep Commissioner Tullos updated. 
      
      
      
      
      

12.  Consider and take action to approve a variance request from the subdivider of a 69.708 acre tract in the A D 
     Kennard survey, Tract 6, in Precinct 2. 
     Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Speaking with the property owner the County requires dedication of 
     right-of-way during platting, they are not wanting the trees cut down with utilities installed along the road. 
     Acceptable compromise allow them to not dedicate right-of-way on CR 218 only because of the condition of 
     CR 218 that the property not be further subdivided without dedicating right-of-way, and prove to the County 
     by the Developer that utilities will be in place. This is due to splitting a 6 acre tract out of a 69.71 acre tract. 
     Mr. Steiber is asking for a right of way dedication just on the 6 acre tract with the thought that property will 
     not be further subdivided. Commissioner Tullos wanted clarification that the County should ask for the 
     roadway dedication on the 6 acre tract. Mr Steiber answered yes. Commissioner Tullos was ready to grant the 
     variance as proposed to the property owner, but now there is an additional proposed requirement. 
     Commissioner Tullos would like for the County Engineer would like to have another conversation with the 
     property owners. Judge Fauth suggested no action at this time. Commissioner Tullos repeated there should be 
     an additional conversation with the property owner. Mr. Tullos is asking for consistency in what is conveyed 
     to the property owner and in the motion that the Court will be considering. Mrs Chaney, the property owner, 
     was present and spoke on behalf of their understanding of the Variance where they did not have to grant a 
     30ft easement because they already have a contract on the 6 acre tract. It was signed before the Mobility Plan 
     was in place.  
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve to grant the Variance request as requested. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

13.  Consider and take action to approve the Grimes County Flood Damage Prevention Order and authorize the 
     County Judge as signatory. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: No comments from Court or anyone else so asking for approval. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve the Grimes County Flood Damage Prevention Order and authorize the 
     County Judge as signatory. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

14.  Discuss and take action to approve an Order Establishing Procedure for Connection of Electric Utilities in the 
     Unincorporated Areas of Grimes County and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Order tied to the Flood Plain regulations that permanent utilities are not 
     connected to a structure or site without a permit from the County. The Order was read by the County Judge. 
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve an Order Establishing Procedure for Connection of Electric Utilities in 
     the Unincorporated Areas of Grimes County and authorize the County Judge as signatory. Seconded by Chad 
     Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5      Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

15.  Discuss and take action to approve a development plan review contract with Texas Fire Code & Licensing. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Contract between Grimes County and Texas Fire Code and Licensing. Rules 
     that the County has in our Infrastructure Regulations. 
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve a development plan review contract with Texas Fire Code and Licensing . 
     Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

16.  Discuss and take action to ratify equipment purchase agreements. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: The Court authorized in late 2025 to finance equipment up to $250,000.00 per 
     year for 4 years. Purchase contract was entered into for the 2024 Develon DL320-7 Wheel Loader @ 5.5% 
     interest and 2026 Bomag BW213PDH5 Pad Foot Compact Roller @ 5% interest asking to ratify the 2 
     agreements. County Attorney Megan Barcak stated she has reviewed the contracts. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve to ratify the purchase agreements for the Develon and Bomag . Seconded 
     by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

17.  Discuss and take action to approve two equipment purchase agreements. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: Agreements cannot be approved at this time because the banks will not 
     finance due to interest rates going up a full percentage since the County was ready to execute the contract. 
     These will have to come back to Commissioners Court to be approved. Commissioner Mallet asked how long 
     will the interest rates hold from time of quote. Typically 15 to 30 days an interest rate is locked in. No action 
     at this time.  

18.  Discuss the Brosig Avenue Bridge project. 
     County Engineer- Jon Steiber: Bids opened on Tuesday of the previous week. The low bid was 1.16 million 
     dollars, grant funds the County has awarded is $403,600.00 which is a shortfall of $757,000.00 the County 
     would have to fund to do this project. Will come back to Commissioners Court in February with 
     recommendations. No action taken at this time. 

19.  Discuss and take action to approve a merchant processing agreement with First Data Merchant Services LLC 
     for the Clover point of sale system at the Bedias collection site. 
     County Engineer - Jon Steiber: One of the items the audits of the Collection Sites conducted there were some 
     financial efficiencies to be gained. Would like to put the Clover Point of Sale System at the Bedias collection 
     site. Would be much more efficient than the current system with the  stickers. Discussion with the County 
     Attorney about the agreement with First Data Merchant Services LLC there is one clause that the County has 
     asked to be changed. Asking the agreement be approved pending the change. County Attorney Megan Barcak 
     stated there are 2 items, the indemnification clause and the arbitration clause. Commissioner Cox asked if this 
     is a trial basis at the Bedias location. Mr Steiber commented that he wants to make sure they work before he 
     spends the money on 5 for each location. Commissioner Tullos asked if this is a move toward not accepting 
     cash. Mr Steiber stated the sites will still be accepting cash. This system will provide better tracking with 
     balance sheets for the Auditors office. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve a merchant processing agreement with the changes to be made as 
     discussed by the County Attorney with First Data Merchant Services LLC for the Clover point of sale system 
     at the Bedias location. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5      Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

20.  Consider and take action in furtherance of the sales of the following, whether in whole or in part: 7.582 acres 
     on Veterans Memorial Drive, Navasota, Texas, the Road & Bridge building (1022 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, 
     Texas), the Environmental Department building (1010 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), and/or other county-
     owned properties located in the Town of Anderson. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or 
     executive session regarding this item pursuant to Texas Government Code 551.072 (Deliberation Regarding 
     Real Property). 
     Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak: No action at this time 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

21.  Discuss and take action to reappoint Sheriff Don Sowell as a Board of Trustee member of Mental Health 
     Mental Retardation Authority of Brazos Valley (MHMRABV) for a term of March 1, 2026 - February 29, 
     2028. 
     Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III: The Judge stated he has talked directly to Sheriff Sowell and he is 
     willing to continue to serve and the Board has requested that he continue to serve. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to reappoint Sheriff Don Sowell as a Board of Trustee member of Mental 
     Health Mental Retardation Authority of Brazos Valley (MHMRABV) for a term of March 1, 2026  - February 
     29, 2028. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

22.  Discuss and take action to approve a resolution exempting counties from paying H.O.T. when conducting 
     official county business. 
     Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III: Resolution to support Legislation to exempt counties from paying 
     H.O.T (Hotel Occupancy Tax) when conducting official county business.  The Judge stated that State 
     employees are exempted, Federal employees are exempted and County employees should be exempted also. 
     If the Resolution is passed the Judge will forward to our State Representative Trey Wharton, and our State 
     Senator Lois Kolkhorst and have this as a part of the 90th Legislation that will take place in January of 2027. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve that we as a county approve a resolution exempting counties from paying 
     H.O.T when conducting official county business. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

23.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently 
     under a burn ban order.) 
     Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III: Based on recommendations from Emergency Management Coordinator 
     and the Fire Chiefs she has spoken with, there should be no action taken.  

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 10:10 AM   
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for January 21, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
                                               
                                       
ORDER ESTABLISHING A SCHOOL ZONE AND REDUCING SPEED LIMIT DURING 
         SCHOOL HOURS ON COUNTY ROADS IN RICHARDS, TEXAS              
                          GRIMES COUNTY, TEXAS 
 
STATE OF TEXAS          § 
                        §           KNOWN ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
COUNTY OF GRIMES        §  
 
     WHEREAS,    on January 21 st, 2026  the  Grimes County Commissioners Court held 
a public  hearing  and  subsequently  met  in  a  regular  session  to  consider  establishing  a 
school zone and reducing  the speed limit to  20 miles per hour during school hours of 7:00
AM to 4:00 PM Monday through Friday on sections of Mulberry Street, Colorado Street,
Panther Drive, Trinity Street, and  Guadalupe Street for  the public safety of residents in
Precinct 2, Grimes County, Texas and  for the students of Richards Independent School
District; and 
      
     WHEREAS,    notice  of the public hearing was properly published in the Navasota  
Examiner as required by TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE     §251.152;  and 
      
     WHEREAS,    a  motion  was made  and  seconded  to approve  this  Order  Reducing 
Speed Limit  on on  sections  of  Mulberry  Street,  Colorado  Street,  Panther  Drive,  Trinity 
Street, and  Guadalupe Street, Grimes County, Texas to 20 miles  per hour; and 
 
     NOW,   THEREFORE,    IT IS ORDERED  by the County of Grimes, State of Texas 
that the  speed limit on Mulberry  Street, Colorado Street, Panther Drive, Trinity Street, and 
Guadalupe Street  shall  be  20  miles  per  hour  during  the  hours  of  7:00  AM  to  4:00  PM 
Monday  through  Friday  when  school  is  in  session.  This  Order shall  be  immediately 
effective upon approval by the  Grimes County Commissioners  Court. 
 
     Issued  by Authority of the Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas this 21 st  
day of January,  2026 .
 
PASSED and ADOPTED on this   21 st day  of January,  2026. 
 
GRIMES COUNTY COMMISSIONERS COURT 
 
                                          _______________________________ 
                                          Joe Fauth III 
ATTEST:                                   Grimes County Judge 
__________________________ 
Barbara Kimich 
Grimes County Clerk                                                                                                  C.
A.         B.      C.
                                                                                                  A.
                                                                                                              A.      C.
                                                                                                         B.

                          B.                                                                                   B.


                          A.
                C.
                                                                                                               A.
                                                                                                                         C.

                                                                                                             B.
                          B.
                                                                                                                A.
                                                                               B.         A.         B.
                           A.                                    A.
                                                            B.
                 C.
                                                                                                                C.
                                                                                          C.GC Crime Stoppers donation to the jury – snack items  Donation from Grimes County Farm Bureau for Diversion Group donation  $100.00 
Donation from Friends of Grimes County, Inc for Child Advocate $3,000.00 
           GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 1/21/2026 Commissioners’ Court 

Road & Bridge Maintenance: 
 
Base repair:  
CR 103, 106, 113, 114, 134, 146, 148, 162W, 179, 180, 190, 208, 220, 229, 243, 333, 403, 406, 407, 412, 
445, 447, Mata and Terra Buena. 
 
Pothole Patching:  
CR 174, 330, 403, 404, 413, 414, 415, 418, 419, 423, 452, Bedias Streets, Glennswood Subdivision, Rabun 
Road, Sunshine Valley and Thane Lane.    
 
Tree Removal/Tree Clean Up:  
CR 185, 186, 188, 246, 315 and 324. 
 
Boom Mowing:  
CR 124, 127, 129, 333, 407 and 408.  
 
Mowing/Shredding: 
CR 132.    
 
Hauling:  
Lease trucks have been hauling base to CR 134, 148, 229 and the FM 2445/Iola stockpiles.  
 
Various: 
Removed fence on CR 175 for road improvements. 
 
Disposed of the large brush pile at the FM 2445 yard and hauled oﬀ furniture and garbage blocking 
drainage dumped on CR 419 and 420. 
 
Drainage: 
 
Ditch work: 
Created/improved drainage on CR 122, 124, 162W, 232 and Skillet Bend. 
 
Culvert/Cross Culvert InstallaƟon: 
Installed one 18x30 and one 24/30 culvert on CR 162W. 
 
Installed Delineators/Signage: 
CR 180, 215 and 407.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 1/21/2026 Commissioners’ Court 

Plaƫng and Permiƫng: 

Cedars Phase 2 road paving ongoing, pending compleƟon end of February, Precinct 2. 

Trident Pipeline permits approved, pending start of construcƟon. 

Hired Kirk Cloyd Development Technician. 

TradiƟons RV park pending resubmiƩal, Precinct 1. 

West Magnolia Forest Water Plant pending ﬁnal approval, Precinct 2. 

Road Use Permit for PV Ready Mix pending.  Plan and drainage report review underway.   

Obtained right of way on CR 175.  Tree clearing and fence construcƟon pending. 

Authorized CRS consultant to proceed with work.  Reviewing CRS LeƩer of Interest and CRS Quick Check. 

EsƟmate 300 residenƟal structures built in 2025 without noƟces verifying compliance with IRC 2021.  
Establishing a remedial compliance procedure to submit for Commissioners Court approval.  IRC 2021 
residenƟal ﬂyer aƩached to report. 

Various plat and plan review throughout Grimes County. 

25 new addresses issued in December 2025. 

Met with TxDOT District Engineer and Pct 2 Commissioner Tullos regarding road safety and development 
in Grimes County.  Scheduling quarterly update meeƟngs between the Road Department and TxDOT 
going forward. 

Met with BVCOG regarding addressing, growth, and development in Grimes County. 

Met with Midsouth about power connecƟons to unpermiƩed structures and assistance providing noƟce 
of County permit requirements during electric service applicaƟon process.  ResidenƟal and Commercial 
informaƟon aƩached to this report. 

Solid Waste / Signs: 

EvaluaƟng operaƟons and layout of collecƟon sites. 

Installing dual locking safes, cameras, door auto-close devices, and pin pad locks on all structures. 

Clover POS system for Bedias collecƟon site pending contract review and approval. 

Deposited $12,164 in solid waste collecƟon fees (December 2025). 

Richards ISD School Zone plan, order, and sign installaƟon funded by the District, Order pending 
approval.  CoordinaƟng materials delivery and installaƟon with Richards ISD. 

          GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 1/21/2026 Commissioners’ Court 

Environmental: 

Issued 36 OSSF permits (December 2025).  400 total issued in 2025 (380 issued in 2024). 

Received 423 maintenance inspecƟon reports.  Processed 144 maintenance tracking fee 
invoices.  Received 129 new maintenance contracts (December 2025).  Received $16,870 in sepƟc 
review/inspecƟon fees. 

Opportunity exists for a licensed physician to work with Grimes County as a Local Health Authority under 
contract to issue abatement orders for public health nuisance. 

Grants: 

CDBG-DR GLO Harvey ReallocaƟon E285:  Scope is being updated to reconstruct one bridge instead of 
two.  Bridge will be replaced with a concrete deck 26-Ō wide with 1-Ō wide rail on each side. 

CDBG TDA CDV23-0382 Brosig Ave Bridge: Pending revisions on Navasota comments from Engineer.  
Opened bids Tuesday Jan 13th, received 8 bids.  EvaluaƟng bids and funding opƟons. 

GLO MIT-MOD CR 409 / Tawneyberry E761:  

      CR 409 - Survey, Drainage, Geotech, and Structural complete.  Environmental complete.  Pending 
      easement acquisiƟon.  Design at 90%.  Right of way leƩers sent to property owners. 

      Tawneyberry - Design at 35%.  Reviewed alignment 12/3.  Environmental complete. 

GLO Resilient CommuniƟes Program: 10/28 Land Use Plan MeeƟng.  GLO Deliverables under review - 
Plans assessment and integraƟon, hazard and risk assessment.                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
Grimes County, Texas                                                                                        A   home     builder 
                                                                                                            must  provide  two 
                                                                                                            notices  to  Grimes 
                                                                                                            County: 
Guidelines                                                                                                   
                                                                                                            1.  Prior to starting 
for                                                                                                             construction, 
Residential                                                                                                     builder must 
                                                                                                                submit a Notice 
Construction &                                                                                                  of Residential 
                                                                                                                Construction 
Inspection                                                                                                      form. 
                                                      What is considered a residential structure?                    
                                                                                                            2.  No  later  than  10  days  after  the  final 
Grimes     County    adopted    International         A residential structure is a building intended for        inspection, a builder must submit a Notice 
Residential  Code  version  2021  on  December        human habitation, including one- and two-family           of Residential Inspection form. 
18th, 2024.                                           dwellings,  townhouses,    and   multi-family          
                                                      buildings  with  three  or  fewer  stories  above     The forms are available on the Grimes County 
New  or  substantially  improved  residential         grade,  used  for  living,  sleeping,  cooking,  or   Development Coordinator website and may be 
structures  in  unincorporated  Grimes  County        eating purposes.  Includes any structure under        emailed to 
beginning  construction  on  or  after  December      occupancy  groups  R-1  through  R-4  in  the         GCPermits@grimescountytexas.gov. 
18th, 2024 must comply with IRC 2021.                 International Building Code.                           
                                                                                                            http://grimescountytexas.gov/development 
The  2021  International  Residential  Code  is 
                                                                                                             
available  at  the  International  Code  Council      What     is   considered    a    substantial 
                                                                                                             
website:                                              improvement? 
                                                       
http://codes.iccsafe.org/content/IRC2021P2            Any  reconstruction,  rehabilitation,  addition,  or 
                                                      other  improvement  of  a  structure,  the  cost  of 
                                                      which  equals  or  exceeds  50%  of  the  market 
                                                      value  of  the  structure  before  the  “start  of 
                                                      construction” of the improvement. 
                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                       
Three inspections are required:                                                                              
                                                                                     Find a TREC-
1.  The foundation stage, before the placement                                   licensed inspector.         
    of concrete.                                                                          
                                                                                                             
2.  The  framing  and  mechanical  systems                                                
    stage, before covering with drywall or other                                                             
    interior wall covering.                                                               
                                                                                                             
                                                                     
3.  On  completion  of  construction  of  the 
                                                                     
    residence.                                                                                               
                                                                     
 
                                                      Find an ICC-licensed                                   
Builders must ensure that all inspections show        inspector. 
compliance with IRC 2021! 
                                                                     
                                                                                                             
                                                                     
                                                                                                                          Questions? 
                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   Contact the Grimes County 
                                                                            Find a TSBPE-licensed                 Road and Bridge Department 
                                                                                plumbing inspector. 
                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                GCPermits@grimescountytexas.gov 
                                                                                                                                   
Inspections may be completed by:                                                                                           936-873-4436 
 
1.  A  professional  inspector  licensed  by  the                                                                                  
    Texas Real Estate Commission                                                                                          1022 Hwy 90 S. 
                                                                                                                      Anderson, Texas 77830 
2.  An  individual  certified  as  a  residential 
                                                                                                             
    combination  inspector  by  the  International    Find  a  Registered Architect  –  Texas  Board  of 
    Code Council                                      Architectural Examiners. 
                                                       
3.  A building inspector employed by a political 
    subdivision 
   
4.  A  plumbing  inspector  employed  by  a                                                        
    municipality and licensed by the Texas State 
    Board of Plumbing Examiners                       Find a Licensed Engineer – Texas Board of 
                                                      Professional Engineers. 
5.  A registered architect 
                                                       
6.  A licensed engineer 
                                                       
Grimes County does not conduct inspections. 
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                             
Condado de Grimes, Texas                                                                                    Un  constructor  de 
                                                                                                            viviendas      debe 
                                                                                                            proporcionar    dos 
                                                                                                            avisos  al  condado 
Directrices                                                                                                 de Grimes: 
                                                                                                             
para                                                                                                        1.  Antes de 
Residencial                                                                                                     comenzar la 
                                                                                                                construcción, el 
                                                                                                                constructor debe 
Construcción &                                                                                                  presentar un 
                                                                                                                formulario de 
Inspección                                                                                                      Aviso de construcción residencial. 
                                                                                                                 
 
                                                      ¿Qué     se   considera    una    estructura          2.  A más tardar 10 días después de la 
El  condado  de  Grimes  adoptó  el  Código           residencial? 
Residencial Internacional versión 2021 el 18 de                                                                 inspección final, el constructor debe 
                                                                                                                presentar un formulario de Notificación de 
diciembre de 2024.                                    Una  estructura  residencial  es  un  edificio 
                                                                                                                inspección residencial. 
                                                      destinado a la habitación humana, incluidas las        
Las   estructuras  residenciales  nuevas   o          viviendas unifamiliares y bifamiliares, las casas 
sustancialmente  mejoradas  en  áreas  no                                                                   Los formularios están disponibles en el sitio web 
                                                      adosadas y los edificios multifamiliares con tres     del Coordinador de Desarrollo del Condado de 
incorporadas  del  condado  de  Grimes  que           o menos pisos sobre el nivel del suelo, que se 
comiencen  a  construirse  a  partir  del  18  de                                                           Grimes  y  pueden  enviarse  por  correo 
                                                      utilizan  para  vivir,  dormir,  cocinar  o  comer.   electrónico a 
diciembre  de  2024  deben  cumplir  con  el  IRC     Incluye  cualquier  estructura  incluida  en  los 
2021.                                                                                                       GCPermits@grimescountytexas.gov. 
                                                      grupos  de  ocupación  R-1  a  R-4  del  Código        
                                                      Internacional de Construcción. 
El Código Residencial Internacional 2021 está                                                               http://grimescountytexas.gov/development 
                                                                                                             
disponible  en  el  sitio  web  del  Consejo  del     ¿Qué se considera una mejora sustancial? 
                                                                                                             
Código Internacional:                                  
                                                      Cualquier    reconstrucción,   rehabilitación, 
http://codes.iccsafe.org/content/IRC2021P2            adición u otra mejora de una estructura, cuyo 
                                                      costo sea igual o superior al 50% del valor de 
                                                      mercado de la estructura antes del “inicio de la 
                                                      construcción” de la mejora. 
                                                       
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Se requieren tres inspecciones:                        
                                                                                                             
1.  La  etapa  de  cimentación,  antes  de  la                                        Encuentra un 
    colocación del hormigón.                                                          inspector con          
                                                                                    licencia TREC. 
2.  La  etapa  de  enmarcado  y  sistemas                                                                    
    mecánicos, antes de cubrir con paneles de                                             
    yeso  u  otro  revestimiento  de  paredes                                                                
    interiores.                                                                           
                                                                                          
                                                                                                             
                                                                     
3.  Al finalizar la construcción de la vivienda.                     
                                                                                                             
¡Los  constructores  deben  asegurarse  de  que       Encuentre un inspector con 
todas    las   inspecciones   muestren    el          licencia ICC.                                          
cumplimiento del IRC 2021!                                           
                                                                                                             
                                                                     
                                                                                                                         ¿Preguntas? 
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                                             
                                                                                       
                                                                             Encuentre un inspector          Comuníquese con el Departamento de 
                                                                            de plomería con licencia          Carreteras y Puentes del condado de 
                                                                                           TSBPE. 
                                                                                                                              Grimes 
                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                GCPermits@grimescountytexas.gov 
Inspections may be completed by:                       
                                                                                                                                   
 
                                                                                                                           936-873-4436 
1.  Un inspector profesional autorizado por la 
    Comisión de Bienes Raíces de Texas                                                                                             
                                                                                                                          1022 Hwy 90 S. 
                                                                                                   
2.  Una persona certificada como inspector de                                                                         Anderson, Texas 77830 
    combinaciones    residenciales  por   el          Encuentre un arquitecto registrado  – Junta de 
                                                                                                             
    Consejo Internacional de Códigos.                 Examinadores de Arquitectura de Texas. 
         
3.  Un inspector de construcción empleado por          
    una subdivisión política 
                                                       
4.  Un inspector de plomería empleado por un 
    municipio y autorizado por la Junta Estatal 
    de Examinadores de Plomería de Texas. 
                                                                                                   
5.  Un arquitecto registrado                          Encuentre  un  ingeniero  autorizado  –  Junta  de 
                                                      Ingenieros Profesionales de Texas. 
6.  Un ingeniero licenciado 
                                                       
El  condado  de  Grimes  no  proporciona 
inspecciones.                                                                                                                                    
                       Grimes County Commercial Development Permitting 
                           1170 County Road 280, Anderson TX 77830 
                                       936-873-4436 
  
 
The following requirements apply to any development in the unincorporated areas of Grimes County, 
Texas. 
 
     All commercial developments in Grimes County must meet the requirements of the Grimes 
      County Infrastructure Regulations.  Plat approval and/or civil plan approval may be required. 
 
     A Drainage  Impact  Analysis  and  TraƯic  Impact  Analysis  may also be  required  for  certain 
      developments. 
 
     Commercial  septic  systems  in  Grimes  County  must  be  permitted  and  inspected and 
      perpetual maintenance contracts must be submitted to Grimes County. 
 
     Grimes County requires dedication of road easement right-of-way as a condition of permit 
      and plat approval in certain circumstances.  Permit and/or plat applications that conﬂict with 
      the Grimes County Mobility Plan will not be approved. 
 
     Driveway/Culvert permits are required on County Roads.  Commercial developments may be 
      issued temporary driveway permits.  Permanent driveway permits will not be issued until civil 
      plans are approved. 
 
     Any permanent habitable structure requires a ﬂoodplain development permit.  Development 
      in or near a ﬂoodplain requires a ﬂoodplain development permit. 
 
     Structures in the ﬂoodplain must have the foundation designed by a civil engineer and must 
      be properly elevated above the base ﬂood elevation with an elevation certiﬁcate submitted 
      to Grimes County, signed and sealed by a surveyor or engineer. 
 
     New  and  substantially  improved  residential  structures must comply with International 
      Residential  Code  2021  requirements.   Notice  of Residential  Construction  and Notice  of 
      Residential Inspection must be submitted to Grimes County. 
 
     RV  Parks,  Rental  Communities,  and  Manufactured  Homes  Parks  must  meet  speciﬁc 
      requirements in addition to the commercial development requirements in the infrastructure 
      regulations. 
 
     Please review the Grimes County Order Establishing Procedure for Connection of Electric 
      Utilities in the Unincorporated Areas of Grimes County on the reverse page. 
 
     Failure to acquire the correct permits prior to construction or occupancy may result in civil 
      or criminal penalties. 