Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Public Hearing are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on July 15, 2026 at 8:45 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Public Hearing Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Director of Development Services - Shawn King (CM)

1. Consider the application for and hear any protest to the proposed replat for Bluebonnet Hills lot 1 & 2 located
in Precinct 1.
Grimes County Director of Development Services Shawn King: Speaking on behalf of Mr King is the Grimes
County Engineer Jon Steiber. The replant is to solve an access issue for the larger tract to the back of the 2
properties. Worked with the Developer to configure Lot 2 to gain access to the tract in the back. Property
configuration does meet all of the rules and regulations. Precinct 1 Commissioner Chad Mallett stated he was
in agreement with the replat, so the tract is not land locked. Judge Fauth announced if anyone has a public
comment on this agenda item, the court will recognize them to speak. No one had any comments

Adjourn

Motion by Chad Mallett to Adjourn. Seconded by Michael Raska.
In Favor: 5

Opposed: 0

Motion Passed

Meeting was adjourned at 8:54 AM

STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for July 15, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas