                                Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                          Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                 Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                     
David Tullos                                                                             Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                 Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                            Joe Fauth III 
                                        Grimes County Judge 
                                           270 FM 149 W. 
                                       Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                   
                                 Notice of the Special Meeting of the 
                            Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                   
                                Wednesday, May 27, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

 1.   Discuss and appoint a committee in accordance with the Executive Summary of Guidelines and Criteria for Tax 
      Abatements Pursuant to Texas Tax Code Chapter 312 and for Grants Pursuant to Texas Local Government Code Chapter 
      381. It is expected that the court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code § 551.0745 to 
      deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a member of an 
      advisory body. (Personnel Matters). 

 2.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 
      of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information that the 
      Commissioners Court has received from Space Exploration Technologies Corp. The Commissioners Court is conducting 
      economic development negotiations and will deliberate an offer of financial or other incentive to the business prospect of 
      a multi-phase, next-generation, vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication 
      facility, proposed to be located at the Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas. 

 3.   EXECUTIVE SESSION: It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to 
      Section 551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss commercial or financial information that the Commissioners 
      Court has received from a business prospect that the Commissioners Court seeks to have locate, stay, or expand within 
      the County in the Navasota Industrial Park and with which the Commissioners Court is conducting economic 
      development negotiations, and to deliberate the offer of a financial or other incentive to the business prospect: proposed 
      manufacturing facility for heat-transfer equipment and thermal-management systems for cooling, refrigeration, and 
      industrial processing applications. 

 Adjourn 

  

                    
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 05/21/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the right to convene in executive session at any time deemed 
necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the 
County Clerk no later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can be found in the Rules of Procedure, 
Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  

 
 