Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

cs

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Budget Meeting are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on July 28, 2026 at 9:00 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Budget Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III

1. Discuss and review the Grimes County FY 2027 departmental budget requests. Jt is expected that the Court
will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the
appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or
employee).

FY 2027 Budget Discussions:

County Judge Joe Fauth stated that in his proposed budget is a $4.00 pay increase for all employees, including
Elected Officials.

Grimes County Precinct 1 Justice of the Peace Chris Accord: Judge Acord appreciates the proposed raise, but
he would like to address that his clerks were not part of the HRCC restructure of salaries. Judge Acord would
like to see them brought up to the mid range of their levels.

Grimes County Precinct 1 Constable James Ellis: Constable Ellis stated that last year the Court approved the
purchase of handheld radios due to 7 areas of his precinct that he was not able to reach dispatch. Now with
the handhelds, he has returned to those areas and can now reach dispatch in 6 out of the 7 areas. To help boost

service, it is being looked into to move a repeater from Bedias to Iola. Printers have been installed in the
patrol units to print citations and warnings. Hope to get away from hard copies and start printing on thermal
paper. Judge Fauth asked if it is too hot in the vehicles and distorting the print on the thermal paper. Deputy
Moon said he has not had any problems. Judge Fauth would like to see all patrol units go to the thermal paper
and printers. Constable Ellis has proposed 2 options for the purchase of equipment for in-car systems and
body cameras. Currently operating off of an old system EL4 that Motorola no longer supports. Ist proposal is
buying equipment outright and a cost of a 5-year cloud-based storage option. With the cloud-based option 5
year contract, any upgrades the equipment is replaced at no extra cost. Buying the equipment outright for 2
units is approximately $19,000 or the 5 year is $26,000.

Constable Ellis is requesting another deputy. Approximate price to add an additional deputy, outfit a patrol
car and all equipment is approximately $200,000.

Grimes County Clerk Barbara Kimich: Discussion of the County Clerks budget. Overtime to clean up old
records, correcting and re-scanning. Per AG opinion, these funds can come out of Fund 21 Records
Management. Budget $82,000 in Fund 21 and get quotes on getting all Probate records digitized.

Convene at 10:59 AM Commissioner Tullos left the meeting.

Re-Convene at 12:34 PM

Grimes County Sheriff Don Sowell and Chief Deputy Martha Smith:

Discussion of salaries for new deputies being hired. With the adoption of HRCC and receiving SB22 this
brought new hires in at the mid-level. Rate of pay for deputies just graduating from the Academy and deputies
that have previous experience was not being considered due to the scale. To attract viable candidates to apply,
the starting salary must be more competitive with some of the surrounding counties. Chief Deputy Smith is
requesting that the amount of experience in law enforcement be considered when a deputy is hired. Chief is
asking the Court to review the step scale. The scale only goes up to the mid and does not increase to the max.
Chief Smith asked the Court to increase the Sheriff's salary to be above the Chief Deputy's salary. The
increase would bring his salary to $125,000.

Dispatch: Requesting | Dispatcher position.

Jail: Need 2 night shift sergeants. Promote 2 to sargent from the jail staff and replace the 2 jailers.
Commissioner Cox wanted to discuss the Chaplain position. Chief Smith stated they were prioritizing staff
needed and that position was on the lower down the list but is definitely needed. Commissioner Cox states the
Chaplain plays a vital role with the jail and would like to see that part time position considered.

Courthouse Security: The company that services the scanner has gone out of business. May possibly need to
request a budget amendment when a new company is found to service or replace the equipment. Possibly use
a vehicle from the sheriff's department for courthouse security.

This meeting was Discussion only; No Formal Action, Order or Vote was taken by the Court

Adjourn

Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox.
Commissioner Tullos left the meeting during the recess.

In Favor: 4

Opposed: 0

Motion Passed

Meeting was adjourned at 3:32 PM

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for July 28, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas