                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                  Wednesday, January 21, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Approve an Order Establishing a School Zone and Reducing the Speed Limit on County Roads in Richards, Texas. 

 2.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services (will present 02/04/2026) 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Constables - James Ellis Pct. 1, Blake Jarvis Pct. 2, Gary Bender Pcts. 3 & 4 (JF) 

8.   Receive the Grimes County Constable Pct 1, 2 and 3/4 Racial Profiling reports for 2025. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

9.   Discuss and consider approval of a resolution authorizing submission of a grant application to the Office of the Governor of the 
     State of Texas for the purchase of Rifle Resistant Body Armor for the Grimes County Sheriff’s Office and authorizing the 
     County Judge to serve as the authorized official and signatory. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF) 

10.  Discuss and take action to auction, recycle, or scrap surplus items. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (DT/JF/MR) 

11.  Road Department Report. 

12.  Consider and take action to approve a variance request from the subdivider of a 69.708 acre tract in the A D Kennard survey, 
     Tract 6, in Precinct 2. 

13.  Consider and take action to approve the Grimes County Flood Damage Prevention Order and authorize the County Judge as 
     signatory. 

14.  Discuss and take action to approve an Order Establishing Procedure for Connection of Electric Utilities in the Unincorporated 
     Areas of Grimes County and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

15.  Discuss and take action to approve a development plan review contract with Texas Fire Code & Licensing. 

16.  Discuss and take action to ratify equipment purchase agreements. 

17.  Discuss and take action to approve two equipment purchase agreements. 

18.  Discuss the Brosig Avenue Bridge project. 

19.  Discuss and take action to approve a merchant processing agreement with First Data Merchant Services LLC for the Clover 
     point of sale system at the Bedias collection site. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 
Consider and take action in furtherance of the sales of the following, whether in whole or in part: 7.582 acres on Veterans Memorial 
Drive, Navasota, Texas, the Road & Bridge building (1022 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), the Environmental Department building 
(1010 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), and/or other county-owned properties located in the Town of Anderson. It is expected that 
the Court will convene a closed or executive session regarding this item pursuant to Texas Government Code 551.072 (Deliberation 
Regarding Real Property). 

20.  Consider and take action in furtherance of the sales of the following, whether in whole or in part: 7.582 acres on Veterans 
     Memorial Drive, Navasota, Texas, the Road & Bridge building (1022 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), the Environmental 
     Department building (1010 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), and/or other county-owned properties located in the Town of 
     Anderson. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive session regarding this item pursuant to Texas 
     Government Code 551.072 (Deliberation Regarding Real Property). 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

21.  Discuss and take action to reappoint Sheriff Don Sowell as a Board of Trustee member of Mental Health Mental Retardation 
     Authority of Brazos Valley (MHMRABV) for a term of March 1, 2026 - February 29, 2028. 

22.  Discuss and take action to approve a resolution exempting counties from paying H.O.T. when conducting official county 
      business. 

 23.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
      order.) 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 01/14/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 