                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                  Wednesday, January 7, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Receive standard mileage rates as issued by the Internal Revenue Service for 2026: 72.5 cents per mile for business miles 
      driven; up 2.5 cents from 2025. 

 2.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 3.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for November 2025 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of 
      same, in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 7.   Veterans (postponed from 12/17/2025), Emergency Management Services (postponed from 12/17/2025), Human Resources, 
      IT, Elections 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 8.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Cave Wells (DT) 

9.   Discuss and take action to accept the revised Grimes County Historical Commission bylaws. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

10.  Consider and recognize Grimes County Sheriff's Office employees for exemplary service. 

11.  Consider and take action to accept donations from the Grimes County True Blue Foundation. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

12.  Consider and take action to approve the Joint Primary Election Services Contracts, Joint Resolution, and authorize the County 
     Judge as signatory. 

Grimes County District Clerk - Diane LeFlore (JF) 

13.  Discuss and take action regarding compensation for new District Clerk employee. 

Grimes County Assistant Auditor - Sinda Phelps (JF) 

14.  Approve FY26 Agreement for Alternative Dispute Resolution Services and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd 

15.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

16.  Discuss and take action to add and remove radios to BVWAC System. 

17.  Discuss and take action to utilize ESO for Emergency Planning, Plan review, and inspections. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

18.  Discuss and take action to update the optional add-on charge for a 911 address sign from $10 to $25. 

19.  Discuss and take action to update the Permits fee schedule adding Fire Code/NFPA consultant reviews and increasing certain 
     fees by 2.2% based on the South Region CPI-U for the 12-month period ending November 2025. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

20.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
     order.) 

21.  Receive any updates on the Strategic Plan. 

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak (JF) 

22.  Consider and take action in furtherance of the sales of the following, whether in whole or in part: 7.582 acres on Veterans 
     Memorial Drive, Navasota, Texas, the Road & Bridge building (1022 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), the Environmental 
     Department building (1010 Hwy 90 South, Anderson, Texas), and/or other county-owned properties located in the Town of 
     Anderson. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or executive session regarding this item pursuant to Texas       Government Code 551.072 (Deliberation Regarding Real Property). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 12/31/2025 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 