Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Public Hearing are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on June 17, 2026 at 8:45 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Public Hearing Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Development Coordinator - Shawn King (CM/PC/DT)

1. Consider the application for and hear any protest to the proposed replat of Dartmouth Estates tracts 9 and 10
located in Precinct 1.
Grimes County Development Coordinator Shawn King: Proposed replat of Dartmouth Estates Tracts 9 and 10
located in Precinct 1. Landowners bought two (2) tracts and wants to combine into one (1) lot to build a
home. Meets all requirements. Commissioner Mallett has no concerns.

2. Consider the application for and hear any protest to the proposed replat of Country Town Estates Subdivision
Lot 78 located in Precinct 1.
Grimes County Development Coordinator Shawn King: Proposed replat of Country Town Estates Sub Lot 78
located in Precinct 1. Landowner owns one (1) lot approximately 3.15 acres and wants to split into three (3)
one (1) acre lots. Public water is available and meets all qualifications for it to be developed. Commissioner
Mallett has no concerns.

3. Consider the application for and hear any protest to the proposed replat of West Magnolia Forest, section 13,
Lots 2 and 3 located in Precinct 4.
Grimes County Development Coordinator Shawn King: Proposed replat of West Magnolia Forest Section 13,
Lots 2 and 3 located in Precinct 4. Developer bought the property and wants to split into four (4) one (1) acre
lots. Lot 3R did have a well but has been capped and plugged. Public water is available. Meets all
qualifications. Commissioner Cox has no concerns.

Consider the application for and hear any protest to the proposed replat for West Magnolia Forest, Section 16
lots 40 and 41 located in Precinct 2.

Grimes County Development Coordinator Shawn King: Proposed replat for West Magnolia Forest, Section
16 Lots 40 and 41 located in Precinct 2. Landowner wants to move property line in the middle over due to a
structure was crossing over the boundary line. To make it legal, property line needed to be moved over to the
setbacks and meets all qualifications. Commissioner Tullos has no concerns. Commissioner Mallet asked if
the lots needed to be renamed to 40R and 41R to avoid confusion? Mr King stated he did not believe so
because the property line was being moved in the corner. Still meets the wordage for the subdivision.

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF)

5.

Consider and hear any protest for the adoption of the proposed Grimes County Fire codes utilizing the
International Fire Code 2024 with Addendum and Appendices B, C, D, F, H, I, J, K, L, N, and Q.

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: Working with a consultant
and other Fire Marshalls in the area to make sure there is a contiuity if they were to be brought in for
investigations and so forth. The International Fire Code is adopted by all the surrounding areas, and we are
adopting the 2024 as it has updated with BESS centers, stipulations as everything is changing. Judge Fauth
asked if there was anything that the county needed to pay particular attention to? Ms Bumpous stated no, but
there will be discussion in the Regular Meeting.

Adjourn
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox.

In Favor: 5
Opposed: 0
Motion

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for June 17, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas