                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                     Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on March 20, 2026 at 1:00 PM 
there was a Commissioners Court Special Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

1.   Discuss and take any necessary action regarding internal candidates and the process for replacing the Grimes 
     County Human Resources Director. 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: 4 internal applications have been turned in for the Human Resource 
     Directors position. It is his recommendation that an ad also be placed in the Navasota Examiner advertising 
     the vacancy. Also, to place other open positions, such as the Asst. Auditor, and the Road Department has a 
     couple of vacancies as well. Judge Fauth stated the 4 internal candidates that have applied are, Ashley 
     Armatys, Lauren Seifert, Ta'Myera Warren, and Sarah Santoy. Judge Fauth stressed how key and important 
     this position is to the County.  
     Precinct Commissioner David Tullos stated that he would ideally like to have a pool of candidates with not 
     only a degree but significant experience in HR. He believes the newspaper ad should be tailored to specify 
     what is being sought in a candidate, to make the best possible decision and to do their due diligence when 
     candidates are chosen to be interviewed and potentially hired to represent the taxpayers.  
     Precinct 4 Commissioner Phillip Cox mentioned checking on the cost of outsourcing HR. Judge Fauth added 
     in reference to the ad, the County does not require a degree, but it is preferred. Commissioner Tullos stated he 
     would refer back to the "debacle" when trying to find a qualified replacement for Harry Walker. The 
     newspaper ads for months and did not have a qualified candidate until it was given to an outside source with 
     the expertise and do a talent search. At that time, a pool of qualified candidates was assembled, which enabled 
     the County to hire Mr Steiber.  Precinct 1 Commissioner Chad Mallett asked with the other positions within 
     the County that have been vacant for quite some time, what other avenues are there to be utilized to fill all 
     positions. Judge Fauth stated the typical process is to give 72 hours for internal candidates to apply, if the 
     Court decides if that is enough or not enough, an ad is placed in the paper. If there are still not enough 
     candidates, the Court will look to an Employment Agency for qualified applicants.  The purpose of today's 
     meeting is to determine if the same procedures will be followed or consider other options. Precinct 3 
     Commissioner Raska stated that the Court certainly needs to take careful consideration in choosing this 
     important position. Commissioner Cox asked if the Court would consider outsourcing the HR position? Judge 
     Fauth preferred the idea of hiring someone which would give more internal control. Commissioner Tullos 
     stated to explore all possiblilites, even outsource, which could also include how payroll is being handled. 
      Commissioner Tullos asked that the criteria in the newspaper ad be very specific to hopefully attract only 
     qualified candidates to apply. Judge Fauth asked Ms Wagner if the job description could be posted on the 
     website. She answered absolutely. The ad would read the position that is vacant with a notation to see the 
     posting on the Grimes County website for open positions. Commissioner Tullos asked about posting on 
     LInkedin. County Attorney Megan Barcak stated she used LinkedIn when searching for her vacancy she had 
     in her office. She also created a FB page with those links to Indeed and Linkedin. Judge Fauth stated that 
     using an employment agency could cost the county approximately 30% more, so if a sufficient pool of 
     candidates can be obtained from the newspaper ad, referring the candidate to the website for the job 
     description would be more cost-efficient. Commissioner Tullos asked what criteria they would include in the 
     job description, such as a certain amount of experience, a degree or the key points that the Court is looking 
     for. Commissioner Tullos states that a degree in HR with significant experience in a large corporation or 
     government entity is a high priority. Judge Fauth asked Ashley Armatys to step to the podium to enlighten the 
     Court on how the job posting is prepared. Ms Armatys stated what they currently have is the position 
     summary which the Judge previously read from the job description. Judge Fauth asked Ms Armatys if she 
     could take the minimum requirements and incorporate that into the ad. Ms Armatys asked what the deadline is 
     to have applications turned in? Judge Fauth answered to have them in by Tuesday, March 31st. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to place an ad in the newspaper for the Human Resource Director, the 
     Assistant Auditor and the Road positions that are open. Jessi Murphy, on the Assistant Auditor position, will 
     review the ad in order for the HR Dept (Ashley) to have it today. Ashley will incorporate the position 
     summary and the minimum qualifications for the HR Director position along within the ad will be the 
     deadline date and reference that full job description for these positions may be accessed on the County 
     website HR Dept. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 
      

Adjourn 
Motion by Chad Mallett to Adjourn. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned  

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for March 20, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 