                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                     Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on April 15, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
there was a Commissioners Court Regular Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
 

Invocation 
Invocation delivered by Reverend Charles Thompkins, Salem House of Blessings.  

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments, you will 
need to submit a Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. 
Public comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person. 
Public Speakers: Taylor Jean Perry - Grimes County Democratic Party. Speaking on behalf of protecting 
groundwater and ensuring responsible Data Center development in Grimes County. 
Roberto de Freitas - Focusing Families. His task with the agency is to work with men in abusive relationships. 
Weekly sessions that are court-ordered, also rerferrels from probation.  
Jodi Pistler - Grimes County Citizens for Responsible Development. Providing another option with Kendall County 
Fire Code/IFC 233/NFPA 855 Strategy. Tools that are available to protect our community. By using existing county 
fire code authority from Texas Local Government Code Section 233.061 says the county adjacent to a county with a 
population over 250,000 may adopt a fire code. Section 233.062 applies in unincorporated areas to commercial 
establishments, public buildings, and multifamily dwellings. Steps Grimes County could go about using a similar 
approach as Kendall County: 1. Confirm legal authority. 2. Determine current fire-code status. 3. Review Kendall 
County's documents. 4. Identify Grimes-specific vulnerabilities. 5. Amend or adopt county fire code language.6. 
Create Grimes-specific ESS guidance. 7. Require permit/inspection/compliance process and 8. Tie it to public safety not politics.  
Marie Egyed - Grimes County Citizens for Responsible Development. One month since it was learned about the 
Data Center is looking at property on FM 1696. Approximately 300 citizens attended the Iola meeting and almost 
100 more attended the meeting in Plantersville. Another example form Fayette County of how other counties have 
found ways to pause, slow or make the build-out harder. Want to know what Grimes County is doing. Asking Court 
to organize and host a public information meeting, with live stream, so people of Grimes County can hear directly 
from the Court was is happening to our community, and what is the plan to protect it.  
Precinct 2 Commissioner David Tullos: Some calendar events. Anderson Volunteer Fire Dept's annual steak dinner 
and fund raiser is Saturday, April 18th. Dinner starts @ 5:30 and live auction @ 7:00 pm. It will be held at St. 
Stanislaus Parish Hall in Anderson. Cost is $20.00. Saturday April 25th is Plantersville Annual Crawfish Festival 
held at DeepRoots vineyard. Advance tickets are $50.00, $60.00 at the gate. Friday May 8th Plantersville Stoneham 
Volunteer Fire Dept's steak dinner and fund raiser held at St. Mary's Catholic Church. Saturday May 9th Shiro 
Volunteer Fire Dept's annual barbeque fund raiser and car show.  
County Judge Joe Fauth III: A Historical marker will be placed at Carver on South LaSalle @ 12:30 pm Saturday 
April 18th. 

Consent Agenda Items 
Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve Consent Agenda Items 1, 2, 3, and 4. Seconded by David Tullos. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 

1.   Consider and approve the plat of Hadley Haven Subdivision located in Precinct 2. 

2.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

3.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

4.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Presentation of Employee Service Awards 
IT Director Greg Cannon: 10 year award Andrew Duncan 

5.   Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
      
     10 YEARS 
     Andrew Duncan 
     IT Director Greg Cannon: Recognize Andrew Duncan for 10 years of service.  

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 
     Veterans Services Jay Lafferty: 31 phone conversations and 13 in office visits. Initiated 4 claims. Check-ups 
     on 2 claims. Banner was displayed at Circle Star. Estmated 10,00 people. Also displayed at the Fairgrounds 
     Bull Buck Out. 800 plus people attended. 
     Emergency Management Services Coordinator Dione Bumpous: No emergency responses in the month of 
     March. Updates on projects - Cameo training which compiles the reported Teir II Hazardous materials in 
     Grimes County. This helps with pre-planning those facilities for emergency response. Fire Codes - All 
     appendices have been created. Have a meeting with the consultant to review documents. State Homeland 
     Security Grants - First Responder Radio grant was ranked #3 and the Constable Radio grant was ranked #5 
     out of 5. Mobile Food Truck Inspections - Texas Dept of Health and Human Services has requested a possible 
     MOU for the County to be able to perform the inspections of mobile food trucks for the state. Grimes County 
     Community Wide Protection Plan (CWPP) Updating the current plan that was revised in 201. With recent 
     growth there are many subdivisions to add. Working with Fire Chiefs to complete. Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, 
     Elections, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of 
     Commerce, Bluebonnet Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory 
     Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet 
     Maintenance Committee 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: No maintenance issues. HR Director Talitta Coleman is retiring. There is 
     a process to find her replacement. IT Dept all Samsara devices have been installed except for the 2 new dump 
     trucks. Elections there are concerns that prices are being raised by some facilities we use.  
     Precinct 2 Commissioner David Tullos: Grimes County Animal Rescue. Encourage volunteers to support the 
     Animal Rescue. Always step up when the Sheriffs Dept calls. Grimes County Historical Commission. Making 
     arrangements to have a Cultural Festival in September or October at Historical Anderson Park. Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District. Attended their quarterly meeting. Raised transport fees taking water out 
     of a well to a location to be used. Grimes County Chamber of Commerce. Attended coffee with the Chamber 
     event at the Elks Lodge. Encourage to go by and learn what the Elks Lodge is all about.  
     Precinct 3 Commissioner Michael Raska: Meeting with solid waste and 911 Addressing. County Engineer Jon 
     Steiber will elaborate further. 
     Precinct 4 Commissioner Phillip Cox: Fairgrounds; Go Texan Crawfish Boil, TSSA Cattle Show. Upcoming 
     events - Navasota Education Foundation dinner Thursday April 16th. Doors open @ 5:30 dinner starts @ 
     6:00. Iola 4-H Jackpot Calttle Show April 18th. Anderson Ag Booster Club annual dinner, dance and auction 
     Saturday May 2nd. Dinner 6:00 to 8:00, auction @ 7:00 and dance is from 8:00 to 11:30.Texas Longhorn 
     show May 1st thru May 3rd. . Ems services are stressed. 

Focusing Families - Hilda Martinez (JF) 

8.   Consider and take action to proclaim April 2026 as Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. 
     Focusing Families Hilda Martinez: Texas has some of the highest reported sexual assault cases in the US. 
     According to DPS 15,097 cases reported. An estimated 6.3 million Texans have experienced some form of 
     sexual assault in their lifetime. 2 out of 5 women, 1 out of 5 men have been sexually assaulted. 1 out of 10 
     survivors report the crime to law enforcement. 70 -80% assaults are committed by a perpetrator known to the 
     victim. 40% victims are under the age of 18. Only about 1 out of 5 sex crimes result in a conviction. Five 
     ways to help prevent sexual violence in our community.... 1. Educate ourselves. Learn more about the 
     dynamics of sexual violence and that it can happen to anyone. 2. Talk about it. Almost everyone knows 
     someone that has been impacted by sexual violence. 3. Practice consent. Consent is an active agreement that 
     can be changed at any time. 4. Be an active bystander. Intervene when you see or hear behavior or comments 
     that support sexual violence. Speak up and offer support.  5. Support the efforts to prevent sexual violence. 
     Donate, volunteer, participate or join in the movement by learning about legislation that supports survivors 
     and letting representatives know that you support the cause.  
     April 29th is Denim Day. A worldwide protest against victim blaming surrounding sexual violence. 1999 rape 
     case was overturned because the victim wore tight jeans.  
     Proclamation - Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month April 2026 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve to proclaim April 2026 as Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention 
     Month. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

9.   Discuss and take action to approve a revised Resolution for Rifle Resistant Body Armor Grant, originally 
     approved on January 21, 2026, to incorporate requested changes from the Office of the Governor, including 
     specifically naming the authorized official and the Financial Officer. 
     Grimes County Sheriffs Office Chief Deputy Martha Smith: The office of the Governor kicked back the first 
     Resolution. County Judge Joe Fauth III name was not in the body, did not have Sinda Phelps as the Financial 
     Officer and did not include the Grant. Corrections have been made and asking Court to approve the 
     Resolution to be submitted today.  
     Motion by Phillip Cox to Approve a revised Resolution for Rifle Resistant Body Armor Grant, originally 
     approved on January 21, 2026, to incorporate requested changes from the Office of the Governor, including 
     specifically naming the authorized official and the Financial Officer. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (DT) 

10.  Receive County Clerk transition audit report. 
     Grimes County Auditor Jessi Murphy: Precinct 2 Commissioner David Tullos wanted to thank Ms. Murphy 
     and her office, especially Jessica Herrera for the deep dive into the Audit of the County Clerks Office. He 
     would ask that her office do these types of audits more often. Mr Tullos directed his second comment to the 
     County Clerk thanking her for stepping into the role and emerging into the various things going on in the 
     Clerk's office. If the Court can provide the resources or tools to prevent re-ocourances to let the Court know.  

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

11.  Road Department Report. 
     Grimes County Road Engineer Jon Steiber: Platting and Permitting process. If a Developer wants to put in 
     any commercial development, civil plans must be submitted to the Road Dept. Drainage impact, traffic impact 
     analysis and in some cases a report of the condition of the road leading to that development. A road use 
     agreement with the Count. Making sure the site is safe and has enough water available in case of a fire and 
     access for emergency vehicle Consultants review site layouts and drainage approved by Commissioners 
     Court. Certification of groundwater availability for 30 years. Signed by an engineer or a geo-scientist. Large 
     developments using large amounts of water require TCEQ permits and submit to Bluebonnet Groundwater 
     Conservation District. If you build in the County the Road Dept issues a STOP work order until you submit a 
     permit application and occasionally issues violations. 29 new address issued March 2026. According to 
     BVCOG Grimes County has the most addresses issued per month under BVCOG. Judge Fauth stated he 
     spoke with Trey Wharton concerning the address issues particularly in The Cedars. The State will be doing 
     some grandfathering and adjusting. Mr Steiber continued with 35 new OSSF permits. Spring Clean up was a 
     huge success. Filled 13 open-top dumpsters and 2 tire trailers completely filled (32.5 tons) cost of $12,000. 
     Judge Fauth wanted to reiterate that the Court is setting guidelines that have to be followed whether it is 
     residential or commercial businesses. 

12.  Discuss and take action to approve the purchase of 4 Clover point of sale devices for the solid waste 
     collection sites and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 
     Grimes County Road Engineer Jon Steiber: Court had approved purchase of one Clover point of sale devices 
     for the Bedias Collection site and is going quite well. Request to purchase Clovers for the other 4 sites. 
     Remind Court there is a break even cost by stop selling the tickets sold that serve as a receipt and a ticker for 
     the number of bags that are thrown away. Funds are available from transfer when Road Dept took over 
     Environmental. Judge Fauth asked if this will help resolve the handling of money and deposits being made in 
     a timely fashion. Ms Murphy replied yes.  
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve the purchase of 4 Clover point of sale devices for the solid waste 
     collection sites and authorize the Judge as signatory. Seconded by Chad Mallett.       
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

13.  Request authorization to advertise the following contracts for bids or renew eligible annual contracts: Asphalt 
     & Emulsions and Contract Mowing. 
     Grimes County Road Engineer Jon Steiber: On the agenda in case renewing or re-bidding these contracts due 
     to rising costs of fuel. Discussing with these vendors to take the correct path forward to renew with some 
     changes or re-bidding the contracts. For instance, asphalt and emulsions those cost items are up 15% since the 
     contract was bid last year. Normally have these contracts in place before going into the summer months.  
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve and Authorize to advertise the following contracts for bids or renew 
     eligible annual contracts: Asphalt & Emulsions and Contract Mowing. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
     Judge Fauth commented on the contract mowing, if it was flat surface and ditch mowing on the right-of-ways. 
     Also, tree limb canopies. Does the County have the equipment to handle most of this mowing? Mr. Steiber 
     stated that the County does handle some of the mowing and do not have enough equipment to handle all the 
     vegetation. The County does use the boom-mower as much as possible to cut back tree limbs. 
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

14.  Discuss and take action to approve the first invoice regarding purchase of ambulances. 
     Precinct 4 Commissioner Phillip Cox: Initial invoices were provided to the Court for the purchase of the 2 
     new ambulances. Asking for approval and if approved Commissioner Cox will coordinate payment through 
     the Auditors office.  
     Motion by David Tullos to Approve the first invoice regarding purchase of ambulances and issue a check 
     today or asap. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
     Commissioner Cox comments that for transparency and public information, the ambulances are very costly. 
     Just for the chassis, which is what this invoice is for), it is $95,250 each. Judge Fauth stated the cost to box 
     each ambulance is approximately $463,000 each. To man and make fully operational is close to $1,000,000 
     year. County Auditor Jessi Murphy asked if the Court is wanting the check cut today or add to the list of 
     claims? Commissioner Cox stated he would like the check issued today, as the process cannot move forward 
     until this invoice is paid. County Attorney Megan Barcak stated that once  
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

15.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a 
     Burn Ban Order.) 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: There is currently no Burn Ban in place. No action taken at this time.  

16.  Consider and take action to select an applicant and authorize an offer for the Grimes County Human Resources Director 
     Position. It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 
     (Personnel Matters). 
     County Judge Joe Fauth III: Consider and take action to select an applicant and authorize an offer for the 
     Grimes County Human Resources Director Position. 
     It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 
     551.074 (Personnel Matters). 
     Court convened @ 9:58 am 
     Court re-convened @ 11:28 am 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve to authorize the current HR Director to make the offer.  Seconded by David 
     Tullos.       
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

17.  Consider and take action to approve an agreement with LK Jordan Recruiting Firm to seek candidates for the Human 
     Resources Director position. 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: No need for this agenda item.  

18.  Discuss and take any necessary action regarding Human Resource personnel matters. It is expected that the Court will 
     conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 
     County Judge Joe Fauth III: It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by 
     Texas Government Code 551.074 (Personnel Matters). 
     Court convened on agenda item #16 @ 9:58 and re-convened @ 11:28. 
     Motion by Joe Fauth to Approve HR Sr. Admin Assistant Ashley, that we provide a $250.00 per pay period 
     stipend for the next 60 days starting April 27, 2026 with $125.00 as that pay period will be half over. 
     Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
     County Auditor Jessi Murphy stated her office will need authorization to take the necessary action to create a 
     stipend line for that department.  
     Amended motion by Judge Joe Fauth to Approve HR Sr Admin Assistant Ashley, that we provide a $250.00 
     per pay period stipend for the next 60 days starting with April 27, 2026 with $125.00 as that pay period will 
     be half over and to allow the County Auditor to work with the HR department to create that stipend line so 
     that adjustment of $125.00 on April 27th and going to $250.00 per pay period. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 
      
      
      

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 11:31AM 

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for April 15, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 printer.        GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 4/8/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

   THE GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT OPERATES UNDER THE COUNTY ROAD SYSTEM ADOPTED AUGUST 14TH, 1999 
                PURSUANT TO TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE CHAPTER 252, SUBCHAPTER D. 
            SUBCHAPTERS A & B ROAD COMMISSIONER SYSTEMS DO NOT APPLY IN GRIMES COUNTY. 
                                         
 ROAD RESOURCES ARE ALLOCATED COUNTYWIDE BY THE ROAD DEPARTMENT.  PLEASE DIRECT ALL ROAD-RELATED REQUESTS 
    TO THE GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT AT 936-873-4436 OR GRIMESCOUNTYTEXAS.GOV/ROAD-DEPARTMENT. 
                                        
Road & Bridge Maintenance: 
 
Base repair:  
CR 115, 242, 245, 333, 405, 406, 409, 429, 446 and 448.               
 
Pothole Patching:  
CR 180, 192, 201, 202, 203, 204, 214, 215, 302, 324, 325, 330, 423, Carter, Clark, Lonestar, Rolling Oaks 
Subdivision.  
 
Tree Removal/Tree Clean Up:  
CR 316A.    
 
Boom Mowing:  
CR 179, 220, 401, 404 and Iola streets. 
 
Hauling:  
Lease trucks have been hauling base to the FM 2445/Iola stockpiles.  
 
Various: 
Replaced bridge rail on CR 151. 
Repair bridge erosion on CR 146. 
Reshaped ditches on CR 447. 
Removed dumped Ɵres and furniture on CR 403. 
Pug mill assembled and processing recycled asphalt for paving projects. 
Performed drainage work on County-owned hospital grounds in Navasota. 
ConƟnuing invesƟgaƟon of illegal Ɵre dumping. 
Received delivery of two new Freightliner dump trucks and one grapple truck. 
Ordered low density stone for seal coaƟng.  
Permanently closed County Road 413 per Commissioners Court Order approved July 2, 2025. 
 
Road Projects: 
CR 175, CR 242 boom mowing, culverts relocaƟon, tree removal, base stabilizaƟon ongoing 
CR 115, CR 206, CR 313 pending weather condiƟons for ﬁnish blading and chip sealing. 
CR 316, CR 316A reconstrucƟng and widening ditches, pending weather condiƟons for subgrade 
stabilizaƟon 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 4/8/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

Drainage: 
 
Ditch work: 
Created/improved drainage on CR 242 S. and 447 S.  
 
Culvert/Cross Culvert InstallaƟon: 
Installed one 18x30 culvert on 447 S. 
Installed one 18x40 culvert on CR 175. 
Installed one 18x50, one 24x30, two 15x24 culverts on CR 132. 
 
Installed Delineators/Signage: 
CR 122, 162 W., 180, 219 and 403.  
 
Plaƫng and Permiƫng: 
 
New Permit ApplicaƟons March 2026: 
   -  Driveway/Culvert: 22 
   -  Floodplain Development: 2 
   -  NoƟce of ResidenƟal ConstrucƟon: 13 
   -  NoƟce of ResidenƟal InspecƟon: 4 
   -  Vehicle Road Use: 49 

Cedars Phase 2 pending replat for drainage modiﬁcaƟons.  911 Addressing discussion is ongoing. 

Trident Pipeline construcƟon ongoing. 

TradiƟons RV park pending variance acƟon before ﬁnal approval, Precinct 1. 

West Magnolia Forest Water Plant variance approved, pending replat mylar submiƩal. 

PV Ready Mix road use agreement pending.  Plan and drainage report review underway, Precinct 4. 

Friendly Food Mart pending ﬁnal plat and plan submiƩal. 

Trident Compressor StaƟon civil plans, drainage report, and NFPA comments returned, pending 
resubmiƩal, Precinct 2. 

Aurora 105 convenience store comments returned, pending submiƩal/resubmiƩal, Precinct 4. 

Ongoing compliance with IRC non-compliant residenƟal structures. 

Various plat and plan review throughout Grimes County. 

29 new addresses issued in March 2026. 

 

         GRIMES COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT REPORT - 4/8/2026 COMMISSIONERS COURT 

Solid Waste / Signs: 

Mowed/Weed eat at the Whitehall & Iola CollecƟon sites. 

Installed road signs with new poles at 176, Tara Lane and Oak Drive. 

Installed AutomaƟc door closers at collecƟon sites.   

Deposited $9,356.00 in solid waste collecƟon fees (March 2026). 

March 14th 2026 Spring Cleanup Event - 13 open-top dumpsters and 2 Ɵre trailers ﬁlled - 65,000 lbs (32.5 
tons) - $12,000 cost. 

Environmental: 

Issued 35 OSSF permits (March 2026).  

Received 426 maintenance inspecƟon reports.  Processed 137 maintenance tracking fee 
invoices.  Received 126 maintenance contracts (March 2026).  Received $2,220.00 in sepƟc 
review/inspecƟon fees. 

Working to bring properƟes with expired maintenance contracts into compliance. 

Grants: 

CDBG-DR GLO Harvey ReallocaƟon E285:  Modiﬁed GLO contract pending approval of revised 
engineering contract with HuiƩ-Zollars. 

CDBG TDA CDV23-0382 Brosig Ave Bridge: Beginning closeout process with TDA. 

GLO MIT-MOD CR 409 / Tawneyberry E761:  Project on hold pending waiver valuaƟon approval and 
property acquisiƟon.  

GLO Resilient CommuniƟes Program: GLO Deliverables under review - plans assessment and integraƟon, 
hazard and risk assessment. 

2024 Disasters CDBG-DR GLO: SubmiƩed Phase 1 $4M applicaƟon March 23rd for 2x bridge replacements 
on CR 132 damaged in April/May ﬂoods.  5% local match if approved. 