                            Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                             
                                         Joe Fauth III 
                                    Grimes County Judge 
                                        270 FM 149 W. 
                                    Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                 
                     The Minutes of the Regular Meeting are as follows: 
 
Call to Order 
THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on June 3, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
there was a Commissioners Court Regular Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice 
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present: 
 
Present: 
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett 
 
Absent: 
 

Invocation 
Invocation delivered by Sr Pastor Charles Thompkins, Salem House of Blessings and Miracles. 

Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

Public Hearing: 
County Judge Joe Fauth III called a representative from SpaceX to speak. Slides were not able to be shown. 
Leading up the Terafab project for SpaceX is John Federspiel. He spoke about their mission and history.  
Public Speakers are as follows: Tug White, Anderson. Charles Rogers, Keith. Sonia Cruz, Iola. Marie Egyed, Iola. 
Jody Jackson, Gibbons Creek Rd. Debra Morwood, Iola. Bobbie Jo Swafford, Bedias. Heather Buchanan, 
Anderson. Diana Cross, CR 215. Regina Levoy, Shiro. Jenny Bollom, Montgomery. James David Reeves, Houston. 
Susan Scott Watts, Richards. Robert Irving, Iola. David Wilhelm, CR 180. Karen Shiver, Bedias. Lisa Smith, Iola. 
Robert Rose, College Station. Dan Weaver, Navasota. Pam Wehmeyer, Anderson and William Lane, Whitehall.  

1.   Discussion and action on the designation and creation of SpaceX Reinvestment Zone No. 01-2026-001 
     pursuant to Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve the designation and creation of SpaceX Reinvestment Zone No 01-2026-
     001 pursuant to Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
     Before the vote, Commissioner David Tullos requested further discussion. Mr Tullos thanked SpaceX for 
     being present in Court and asked why they have not been present earlier to hear the questions from the public 
     and as well as behind this dais. Mr Tullos stated he could have benefited from the opportunity to visit with      them directly before making his decision. Mr Tullos has numerous questions that reflect the general interest 
     of the audience. Mr Tullos requested a map to be put on the public screen. Judge Fauth stated with regard to 
     the map, when first received what was proposed from the reinvestment zone, the "green blob" was taken 
     along with the "R" numbers from the CAD, given to the County Engineer. He put the "R" numbers on the 
     map to have a better definition of what the reinvestment zone area looks like. This was done in an effort to 
     provide a better view of what the boundaries might be for what is intended for the reinvestment. 
     Commissioner Tullos stated his concern that if SpaceX had this map available from the beginning of the 
     conversation with the County, and they knew the particular parcels, why wasn't it available? He stated it was 
     sent Friday, 2 weeks prior, so it could be published in time to have this hurried, rushed public hearing today. 
     Without providing our constituents the ability to know what is going to be discussed and voted on today. Mr 
     Tullos stated the whole process has been rushed and has not been transparent. As the map was displayed on 
     the public screen, Mr Tullos asked if anyone could look at the map and tell exactly what the property is that 
     comprises the southern, northern, eastern or western boundaries and give you the property that is directly 
     below these boundaries. He states that as a Court we are being asked to establish a tax increment reinvestment 
     zone that comprises this entire area which the Court and the County had to piece together "R" numbers 
     through our County Engineer and County Attorney's office. To this day, a more defined map has not been 
     received from SpaceX. Mr Tullos does not feel that there has been an honest negotiation with SpaceX to this 
     point to allow the Court or constituents to be informed on what is at stake. He states it is about 21,000 acres 
     or 3-4% of the entire county. He tried to run a Google search to figure out how wide it is from east to west. 
     According to Google, it is about 14 miles. Mr Tullos states he is going to reserve his comments on the tax 
     abatement process until that agenda item. Mr Tullos stated that in regards to the "green blob" when the project 
     was originally presented to Commissioners Court, the northern boundary of Precinct 2 is Highway 30. He 
     states it was not presented to him, as Pct 2 Commissioner, that SpaceX had any interest in any real estate 
     south of Hwy 30. He states this entire project was presented to the Court as utilizing old Gibbons Creek, coal 
     electricity generating site. There was no discussion of stretching to the east to Singleton and Roans Prairie. 
     There was no discussion coming below Hwy 30. The entire tax abatement and TRIZ process was based on the 
     assumption that it was the property around Gibbons Creek Reservoir.  He continues that the map was received 
     and suddenly it is no longer Gibbons Creek, impacting Roans Prairie, Singleton and the area south of Hwy 
     30. A minimum amount of time for anyone to be educated on the specific parcels because there is not a map. 
     Mr Tullos states that as Precinct 2 Commissioner he should have been afforded a dialogue so he could make 
     an informed decision that best represents the interest of people that put him in office. Mr Tullos is asking his 
     fellow Commissioners to refrain from any decision, any vote on this proposal to establish a tax increment 
     reinvestment zone. At a minimum he would like to ask SpaceX if their intention is to build the manufacturing 
     facility around Gibbons Creek? Why are they needing the property to the east that stretches all the way to 
     Singleton and Roans Prairie? If SpaceX plans to build around Gibbons Creek, why is south of Hwy 30 
     included in the reinvestment zone? Mr Tullos asked his fellow members of the Court not to move on this 
     today.  
     Record vote requested by Commissioner Tullos:  
     Commissioner Mallet: Yes 
     Commissioner Tullos: No 
     Commissioner Raska: Yes 
     Commissioner Cox: Yes 
     County Judge Joe Fauth: Yes  
      
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 1 
     Motion Passed 
      

Public Hearing: 
Outside Counsel Mike Dixon: Mr Dixon stated that there has been discussion about the schools. The schools have 
their own abatement process. They will receive a lot of money if this goes through. The tax abatement is regarding a 
proposed investment of $55 billion to $118 billion There is a commitment to a minimum investment of $5 billion 
and 1800 jobs, but that is not what will occur. That is to protect the downside if something were to happen in the 
market. The market for a project this size, actually 1/4 this size, as far as what other entities are offering, is a 90% abatement. Granted, most of those are in larger counties with larger tax bases. Not willing to go with market, the 
fixed PILOT basis was the best choice. After negotiation, a $10 million upfront payment and a fixed PILOT of $20 
million per year. For example, if SpaceX only invested $24 billion, it would be a -9% abatement. If $55 billion is 
invested, the abatement works out to 56%, which is much lower. If they invest $118 billion over the full 35 years, 
SpaceX would get about 78% abatement. Still much lower than what the other entities have given to similar 
projects. Mr Dixon stated this is the highest PILOT he has personally seen. There are provisions to protect the 
environment, requiring SpaceX to comply with all environmental laws, and provisions to protect water. They 
verified it is not their intention to use groundwater. Provisions to protect the grid, they will be providing their own 
electricity through power plants. In fact, they will be putting more energy, in excess of their needs, back onto the 
grid. Noise and light pollution were addressed. Most issues have all been addressed, but nothing is fool-proof. Mr 
Dixon stated he is not making a recommendation, but he has no problem with the monetary terms of the tax 
abatement agreement. Judge Fauth asked Mr Dixon when he referred to the PILOT program, what that stands for. 
Mr Dixon stated it is "payment in lieu of taxes". It is made to benefit the county to make up for the abatement. The 
upfront payment, due 60 days after signing, is for $10 million is for immediate needs, then $20 million per year for 
35 year period. 
Opening Public Comments: Speakers are as follows: Stephanie Waterhouse, Iola. Jude B Stuckey, Anderson. Claire 
Stuckey, Anderson. Glenda Deweese, Iola. Steven Jackson, Gibbons Creek Rd. Sonia Cruz, Iola. Elizabeth Ellis, 
Bedias. Bobbie Jo Swafford, Bedias. Heather Buchanan, Anderson. Diana Cross, Anderson. Jenny Bollom, 
Montgomery. Susan Scott Watts, Richards. Genevieve St Clair, Katy. Ricke Weinkauf, Stoneham. Robert Irving, 
Iola. Karen Shiver, Bedias. Janet V Buoy, Iola. Lisa Ross Smith, Iola. Michael Hart, Keith. Gloria Hitchcock, CR 
180. Chris Cotte, Bedias. Daniel Gannaway, Huntsville. Stephanie Osbahr, Bedias. Sadie Mae, Singleton. Tom 
Johnson, Brazos County. Alan Pepper, Nunn Jones Rd. Marian Lyde, Roans Prairie. David Grimmer, Iola. William 
Graham, Anderson. Robert Rose, College Station. Shirley Hesse, Iola. Erin Wilhite, Eagle View Dr. Paulette 
Bunyaponasarn, Bedias.Max Brand, Plantersville. Susan Shupe, Iola. Michele Gremillion, FM 149. Rhonda 
Nesloney, CR 185. Dan Weaver, Navasota. Richard Gremillion, FM 149. Dennis Hughes, Navasota. Evelyn Ward, 
Navasota. William Lane, Whitehall. Rizwan Maredic, Anderson. Lacey Lyde, Anderson. Josh Coe, Iola. David 
Wilhelm, CR 180. 

2.   Discussion and action on approving a Tax Abatement Agreement between Space Exploration Technologies 
     Corp. and Grimes County, Texas pursuant to Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code.  It is expected that the 
     Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas 
     Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information. 
     Judge Fauth asked if there was a motion on agenda item 2. Commissioner Tullos asked if the Court would 
     convene into Executive Session. Judge Fauth asked if there was a need for Executive Session. Commissioner 
     Tullos stated he had questions for the attorneys. Judge Fauth asked Mr Dixon was there a need to convene. 
     Mr Dixon stated if he is seeking advice from counsel. Mr Tullos stated it would be specific legal counsel 
     expertise. 
     It is expected that the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 
     551.087 of the Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial 
     information. 
     Court convened at 11:43 
     Court reconvened at 12:30 
     No decisions were made, but had discussion with legal counsel.  
     Commissioner Tullos had a question. With regard to the relationship of the project, SpaceX is proposing, the 
     size, and scale of the tax increment reinvestment zone, as to what their plan is for the zone in its entirety. Mr 
     Tullos states the reason it is important to him is that when the project was originally proposed to 
     Commissioners Court, the focus of the conversation was about the facility being built around Gibbons Lake, 
     and the general area of the footprint of the pre-existing coal-burning electricity generating facility that was 
     previously there. The map showed to expand far beyond what had been proposed. Mr Tullos question to 
     SpaceX is what are their plans for the area that stretches to Singleton, Roans Prairie and south of Hwy 30. 
      It was discovered at this time that the video was not streaming. It was still recording but for some the video 
     could not be seen at this time.  
     Judge Fauth asked Commissioner Tullos to re-state his questions for SpaceX Counsel Bucky Brennen. Mr 
     Tullos asked why the original proposal was centered around Gibbons Creek, why was the tax increment 
     reinvestment zone expanded to Singleton, Roans Prairie and south of Hwy 30 and share with the Court and public what SpaceX intentions are. Mr Brennen wanted to clarify the tax increment reinvestment zone has a 
different set of implications, this is simply a tax reinvestment zone. Nothing happens until there is an 
abatement agreement in place. A tax increment reinvestment zone is different where money is paid into a 
fund for the tax increment fund and used in specific ways by the county. This is a tax reinvestment zone. 
There are some counties in Texas where the entire county is a reinvestment zone by statute. This is not one of 
them. Grimes County is where the Commissioners have to designate certain areas of the county as 
reinvestment zones before they can enter into a tax abatement agreement. The purpose of this reinvestment 
zone and the size is it starts at Gibbons Reservoir. The central hub of any facility that will be built will start 
there. Which direction it goes from there is totally dependent on land negotiations. No one will be forced to 
sell their land, so SpaceX is not entirely sure of the footprint of the project site. This is the initial steps so the 
company can finalize their site selection in Texas and hopefully Grimes County. As land acquisitions are 
finalized, construction of the facility can begin at that point. SpaceX does not know how much of the zone 
will be used. It is all intended entirely for the facility. Where exactly it is built will depend on who is willing 
to sell their property. Commissioner Tullos asked if the whole 21,000 acres will be required to build the 
semiconductor manufacturing facility.  Mr Brennen stated this would be the footprint where it will be built 
somewhere in that zone. SpaceX will work with the County in the coming years as land acquisitions and 
buildings go up to say here is the actual footprint of the facility. Everything else outside those parcels that are 
not acquired by SpaceX, having reinvestment zone over those parcels means nothing unless you enter into a 
separate tax abatement agreement with those landowners. Commissioner Tullos inquired with regard to 
environmental impact and practices that will be utilized at the facility. Many have been trying to research the 
process that governs a demi-conductor manufacturing facility. One in question is forever chemicals. Since 
there is not a way to recycle and break down those chemicals to render them harmless, under current 
technology, what is the intent of Terafab, and how will they handle and dispose of polyflorine chemicals? 
Will it be disposed of in Grimes County or taken somewhere else? John Federspiel was brought back to the 
podium to answer Commissioner Tullos question. Mr Federspiel stated they have learned a lot from their 
Bastrop facility. Largest printed circuit board manufacture facility in North America. In that whole process 
they commissioned, very intentionally zero liquid discharge facility. If you research printed circuit board 
manufacturing facilities around the world, they take lots of water in, but in the Bastrop facility it is not a big 
consumer of water. Technology was developed working with the leading edge providers to make sure that 
water can be fully recycled. There are waste streams that come out of the product, working with all the 
relevant environmental agencies, whether Federal or Texas. The waste is classified and disposed of in 
facilities that are well handled to treat that waste and properly secure it. When it comes to getting into the 
water, it has to be treated, they cannot process it they need pure H2O. It has to be stripped away. There is a lot 
of different mechanisms as to what can be done with the water through the facility. Everything being done has 
to be treated and has many stages of purification. Mr Tullos stated that having a corporation run by Elon 
Musk with his resources and consistent exhibition of the latest technology, this company is capable of coming 
up with a solution to separate chemicals in the water. Mr Tullos is asking where does the waste stream end up 
if SpaceX is able to separate the chemicals out.  He stated that he asked specifically to include in the 
agreement that any waste product not find its permanent home in Grimes County, but it is not in the 
agreement, so theoretically SpaceX could dispose of the waste stream here in Grimes County.  Mr Federspiel 
stated he does not know of all the hazardous waste disposals, if there are any locations. Mr Federspiel stated 
that again they have to adhere to all state and federal regulations. The waste cannot be taken and put on any 
property. As far as discharging water, what happens in these situations is the water gets recycled, purified and 
runs in a cooling tower. It has to be sampled, tested and processed to lead to an outcome where you're left 
with a different situation. In other communities and other fabs  around the country use it for irrigation, non-
polutable general uses even though it is cleaner.  
Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve a Tax Abatement Agreement between Space Exploration Technologies 
Corp and Grimes County pursuant to Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code and allow  County Judge as 
signatory. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
Commissioner Tullos asked for a discussion before the vote. He states the agreement is a disappointment. 
Could have achieved so much more. The idea of entering into a tax abatement agreement is to ensure that we 
include as many safeguards and benefits to the County as possible. The hurry rush process by which we have 
conducted this has limited the effectiveness of entering into the agreement. For him personally, it was not a 
negotiation but a capitulation. Grimes County values have been surrendered and our quality of life in pursuit 
of a few dollars that would have been realized as Grimes County develops and grows. He has some concerns      about the language with regard to the environmental impacts. A problem giving them 100% tax abatement. In 
     return what the County will receive is a PILOT of $20 million per year. If you take the $20 million per year 
     and depreciate it over the 35-year agreement, at the end of 35 years it is no longer worth $20 million. Mr 
     Tullos asked the Court to reconsider and try to engage again in negotiations to get a better deal than the one 
     currently on the table.  
     Record vote: 
     Commissioner Mallett-Yes 
     Commissioner Tullos-No 
     Commissioner Raska-Yes 
     Commissioner Cox-Yes 
     County Judge-Yes 
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 1 
     Motion Passed 
      
      

3.   Discussion and action on approving a Section 381.004 Economic Development Program and Agreement 
     between Space Exploration Technologies Corp. and Grimes County, Texas. It is expected that the 
     Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the Texas 
     Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information. 
     Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve a Section 381.004 Economic Development Program and Agreement 
     between Space Exploration Technologies Corp. and Grimes County. Seconded by Michael Raska. 
     Commissioner Tullos requested a record vote. 
     Commissioner Mallett-Yes 
     Commissioner Tullos-No 
     Commissioner Raska-Yes 
     Commissioner Cox-Yes 
     County Judge-Yes 
     In Favor: 4 
     Opposed: 1 
     Motion Passed 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need 
to submit a Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public 
comments will be limited to 2 minutes per person. 
County Judge Joe Fauth III stated there are no Public Comments on the rest of the agenda. 

Consent Agenda Items 
Motion by Chad Mallett to Approve Consent Agenda Items 4,5,6 and 7. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 

4.   Receive January 16, 2026 payroll audit. 

5.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

6.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

7.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd 8.   Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 
     Grimes County Facilities Director Rodney Floyd: Mr Floyd was not present for the meeting due to the 
     Grimes County Fair taking place.  Judge Fauth announced that the Premium Sale would be Thursday June 4th 
     at 6:30 and the Freezer sale will be June 5th at 6:30. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

9.   Consider and accept the $200 donation check from the Grimes County Farm Bureau to be used for the needs 
     of the Grimes County Jail Diversion Crew. 
     Grimes County Sheriff's Office Chief Deputy Martha Smith:  
     Motion by County Judge Joe Fauth to accept the $200 donation check from the Grimes County Farm Bureau 
     to be used for the needs of the Grimes County Jail Diversion Crew. Seconded by Phillip Cox. 
      
     In Favor: 5 
     Opposed: 0 
     Motion Passed 

Grimes County IT Director - Gregg Cannon (JF) 

10.  Discuss and take action to purchase a laptop for the GCHS that was approved in the 2026 Budget for a non-
     GC Employee. 
     Grimes County IT Director Gregg Cannon: Judge Fauth stated purchasing a laptop for the Historical 
     Commission. Ms Murphy stated there is not a user agreement for IT equipment in place. Judge Fauth asked 
     Commissioner Tullos if he would have a conversation with Ms Wells and bring this back on the June 17th 
     agenda.  
     No action taken today.  

Grimes County Human Resources Director - Atina Adair (PC) 

11.  Review, consider and take action on 2026-2027 Renewal Notice and Benefit Confirmation provided by Texas 
     Association of Counties (TAC) for County employee health, dental and vision benefits. 
     Grimes County Human Resources Director Atina Adair: Speaking about renewals, for county employees, of 
     health, dental and vision benefits. Clarissa Messinger, a Texas Association of Counties (TAC) representative, 
     was present to share information concerning benefits. Ms Messinger is the Employee Benefits Consultant 
     Supervisor for TAC. Hailey Gajewski and Tasha Brent with TAC were also in attendance. Main points of the 
     renewal: With the pool as a whole, this has been a hard year with claims cost, which is affecting costs within 
     the pool and the industry itself. Realizing that healthcare is one of the top 3 line items in the budget, TAC has 
     options to offer to offset cost increases. For health insurance, including medical and pharmacy, there will be a 
     16% increase. The pool average is a 9.9%. Each county is rated individually. The board has the option to give 
     everyone 9.9% or the pool needed amount, or they can go in and give individual allocation ratings based on 
     the county's specific data. A mid year review with the HR office to go over the data. A loss ration is the total 
     claims cost compared to the total contributions that TAC is receiving from the county. For the last 12 months, 
     from February back, the loss ration was at 132.8% The loss ratio for the last 36 months is 114.2%. The county 
     should be sitting at approximately 94% to be in line with the pool. Another consideration is the 
     demographics. Ms Messinger stated that they are hearing from other brokerages that they are also 
     experiencing double-digit increases. Judge Fauth stated what a huge burden health care is on the county's 
     budget. Commissioner Cox stated that one of the main concerns expressed to him is the cost of insurance. Mr 
     Cox also stated that the county loses employees to seek other employment because most of their paycheck 
     goes toward insurance. Basically to keep costs down, the deductible, out of pocket and co-pay would have to 
     be raised. Also, the employee could be given a choice between 2 networks. One is that the county would pay 
     the employee benefits through a different network which operates like an HMO, or a second plan option 
     would be our current plan where the employee would have to cover some of the costs. Commissioner Cox 
     asked when the deadline for renewal. Ms Messinger stated June 26th. Late renewal could result in ID cards 
     being delayed and a programming fee.  
     No action at this time. Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

12.  Consider and take action to select Salary Grievance Committee (SGC) according to Local Government Code 
     152.014 and 152.015. 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: Selection of a Salary Grievance Committee according to Local 
     Government Code 152.014 and 152.015. Selection is made by placing the names on slips of paper of the 
     citizens that served on the Grand Jury the preceding calendar year in a container. The first 3 names drawn are 
     the proposed citizens for the committee the 2nd set of 3 are alternates.  
     1. David Lewis 
     2. Dulce Vasquez 
     3.Jeremiah Hatton 
     1st alternate. Elizabeth Chichester 
     2nd alternate: Justin DeLeon 
     3rd alternate: Ester Rosemond 

13.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently 
     under a burn ban order.) 
     Grimes County Judge Joe Fauth III: Currently not under a burn ban. Judge makes the recommendation to take 
     no action at this time. 

Adjourn 
Motion by Michael Raska to adjourn. Seconded by Chad Mallett. 
 
In Favor: 5 
Opposed: 0 
Motion Passed 
 
Meeting was adjourned at 1:34 PM 

  
STATE OF TEXAS 
COUNTY OF GRIMES 
I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate 
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for June 3, 2026. 
 
_________________________________ 
Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk 
Clerk of the Commissioners Court 
Grimes County, Texas 
 