Grimes County Commissioners Court

Michael Raska
Commissioner, Precinct #3

Chad Mallett
Commissioner, Precinct #1

David Tullos
Commissioner, Precinct #2

Phillip Cox
Commissioner, Precinct #4

Joe Fauth III
Grimes County Judge
270 FM 149 W.
Anderson, Texas 77830

The Minutes of the Budget Meeting are as follows:

Call to Order

THE STATE OF TEXAS ~ COUNTY OF GRIMES ~ BE IT REMEMBERED, that on July 24, 2026 at 9:00 AM
there was a Commissioners Court Budget Meeting Part One of Grimes County, Texas at the Grimes County Justice
Center, 270 FM 149 W., Anderson, Texas with the following members present:

Present:
Joe Fauth, David Tullos, Michael Raska, Phillip Cox, Chad Mallett

Absent:

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III

1. Discuss and review the Grimes County FY 2027 departmental budget requests. Jt is expected that the Court
will convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the
appointment, employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or
employee).

County Judge Joe Fauth has put into his proposed budget a $4.00 per hour pay increase for each employee
and elected official.

IT Director Gregg Cannon:

Discussion of Employee Andrew Duncan. Move to managerial position exempt.

Discussion of the TerraFab project revenue as to increase in salaries. Commissioner Tullos and Commissioner
Cox do not agree with spending on large salary increases. More spent on capital projects.

IT Director Gregg Cannon: Budget review.

Suggestion of moving StarGel printer maintenance contract to 4405 line item with Rentals and Contracts and
zero (0) out 4306 Printer Supplies.

Texas Communication PSA & MSA remove $6700 from Professional Service.

CJIS 6.0 this will help keep the County in compliance. Mainly cybersecurity. Jared Simmons VC3 offers
service to monitor and consult the County to make sure we are in compliance. With Terra Fab more
susceptible to Ransom Ware. High value target for cyber criminals. Stay compliant with Government
regulations or if an issue occurs our cyber insurance would be void. Been in business since 1994. Chief
security officer will meet with Gregg to make sure the County stays in compliance. Commissioner Cox
believes this should be looked into ASAP at least get the contract started through legal.

5 minute recess.

Not in Executive Session Re-convene 11:12 am

County Court at Law Judge Tuck McClain: Budget review.

Not any major changes to his budget. Discussion about Sheriff's department, DA, District Clerk, CCL and
County Clerk to all be on the same software. Committee has been formed to try to come to an agreement of
which software would best suit all departments.

Grimes County Justice of the Peace Pct 3 Judge Laughlin: Budget review.

Discussion of the Navasota Annex building has significant issues. Request Possible 4 year plan for a new
building for Precinct 3 and 4.With growth in population, the possibility of splitting Precinct 3 and Precinct 4
Convene at 11:52 for lunch Not in Executive session.

Re-convene court at 12:59

Grimes County Constable Pct 3 & 4 Gary Bender: Budget review.

In need of equipment such as tasers and body cams. Wrap system for JP's and for the Justice Center. $4785
for 3 units.

Commissioner Cox asked Constable Bender if he has a part time job. Commissioner Tullos asked for
Constable Bender to be questioned under oath. Judge Fauth required clarification from County Attorney
Megan Barcak. Ms Barcak stated that if the Court votes for him to be sworn in he could be questioned under
oath, but if he refuses to be sworn in, the line of questioning stops.

Motion by David Tullos to administer an oath to Officer Bender prior to any other further discussion or
testimony before this court. Seconded by Phillip Cox.

In Favor: 3

Opposed: 2

Motion Passed

Constable Bender refused to be sworn in.

Crime Victims Assistance Brenda Williams: Budget review.

Grimes County Auditor Jessi Murphy requests that parameters be put into place such as separate lines for
food, lodging and so on under Direct Victim Expenses. Discussion will take place between Ms Williams and
Ms Murphy.

Grimes County District Attorney Andrea Bender: Budget review.

Ms Bender asked if the Court could convene in Executive Session to discuss a specific employee, evaluation
and job duties. Commissioner Tullos did not see the need for closed session because it is budgetary meetings
and are not discussing salary. According to Ms Barcak it was up to the Court. Commissioner Cox stated that
anything discussed in Executive Session could not be disclosed at any time. Ms Barcak clarified what could
be discussed outside of executive session.

Convene into Executive Session at 2:06

Re-convened Court at 2:22

Discussion about a possible new vehicle for the DA's office. One of the vehicles in their fleet has reached the
10 year mark with 160,000 miles. It is driven by District Attorney Bender. Discussion to raise (1720 & 1722)
Felony attorney's salary to $130,000.

12th District Court Judge Moorman: Budget review.

Increase of line item Court Appointed Attorneys to $120,000 to $180,000.

Judge Cheney is acquiring a new employee to help with the workload of additional reporting that the
Legislature mandates.

Adjourn
Motion by Michael Raska to Adjourn. Seconded by Phillip Cox.

In Favor: 5
Opposed: 0
Motion Passed

Meeting was adjourned at 4:03 PM

STATE OF TEXAS

COUNTY OF GRIMES

I, Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk, attest that the foregoing is a true and accurate
accounting of the Commissioners Court authorized proceedings for July 24, 2026.

Barbara Kimich, Grimes County Clerk
Clerk of the Commissioners Court
Grimes County, Texas