                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                   Wednesday, March 18, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and approve the replat of The Cedars, Section 2 Block 6 lots 3 and 4, located in Precinct 2. 

 2.   Consider and approve the replat of Freedom Acres Lots 1 and 2 in Precinct 1. 

 3.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 6.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Employee Service Awards: 

 7.   Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
       
      5 YEARS 
      Gregory Patton 
       
      10 YEARS 
      Blane Hechler 
      Steven Lowery 
Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

8.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

9.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
     Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Sheriff Don Sowell (JF) 

10.  Consider and take action to allow Sheriff Don Sowell to present Deputy Travis Hughey's service weapon, Llama .45 Cal. Serial 
     # B69783, to Deputy Travis Hughey's family. 

Grimes County Child Welfare Board - Talitta Coleman (JF) 

11.  Consider and take action to approve Proclamation recognizing April 2025 as Child Abuse Awareness and Prevention month in 
     Grimes County and authorize the County Judge as Signatory. 

Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Cave Wells (DT) 

12.  Discuss and take action to authorize the GCHC to allow Gary and Debbie Fuqua to permanently remove the Rocky Creek 
     Bridge from Historic Anderson Heritage Park. 

Sexual Assault Resource Center (SARC) Director of Advocacy - Alicia Rice (JF) 

13.  Presentation of the Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) Biennial Report (2025) for Grimes County. 

Grimes County IT Director - Gregg Cannon (JF) 

14.  Approve Andrew Duncan's two (2) hours emergency call back pay to fix dispatch issue in the Jail. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (PC) 

15.  Discuss and take any necessary action to purchase digital sign for Fairgrounds. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

16.  Road Department Report. 

17.  Discuss the BVCOG GIS Coordinator's subdivision addressing proposal. 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 2 - David Tullos 

18.  Discuss and take action to authorize and implement additional early voting locations for future elections. 

19.  Discuss and approve a request to the Plantersville Town Hall Board of Directors for use of Plantersville Town Hall as an early 
     voting location in the May 2026 Primary Election Runoff. 

Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

20.  Discuss and take action to approve the Revised March 18, 2026 version of the Vehicle Operations Manual. 

21.  Discuss and take action to dissolve the Fleet Management Committee. 
 22.  Discuss, review and take action regarding any matter pertaining to the county vehicle monitoring system. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 23.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a Burn 
      Ban Order.) 

 Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (JF) 

 24.  Present results from the March 3, 2026 Joint Primary Election. 

 25.  Consider and take action on restructuring and/or adjusting the election administrators' salary. It is expected that the Court will 
      convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the appointment, employment, 
      evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

 Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

 26.  Discuss and take action to purchase permanent easement for County Right of Way. It is expected that the Court will convene a 
      closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code § 551.072 (deliberate the purchase, exchange, lease, or value 
      of real property). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 03/11/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 