                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                 Wednesday, February 18, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 2.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 5.   Presentation of Proclamation honoring Harper Sechelski's contribution to Public Safety within Grimes County and declare 
      Wednesday, February 18, 2026 as Harper Sechelski Day in Grimes County. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 6.   Veterans Services, Emergency Management Services 

 Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
            Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Cave Wells (DT) 

8.   Discuss and take action to authorize the GCHC to allow Gary and Debbie Fuqua to permanently remove the Rocky Creek 
     Bridge from Historic Anderson Heritage Park. 

Grimes County Treasurer - Tom Maynard (JF) 

9.   Discuss and take action on the Procedure for Collecting/Depositing Monetary Donations in support of the “Back to School” 
     Program, pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032: all donations and/or gifts to the County must be approved by the 
     Commissioners Court prior to depositing into the county depository. 

Grimes County Constable Pct. 3 - Gary Bender (JF) 

10.  Receive the revised Grimes County Constable Pct 3/4 Racial Profiling report for 2025. 

Grimes County Sheriff's Office - Chief Deputy Martha Smith (JF) 

11.  Receive the Grimes County Sheriff's Office Racial Profiling reports for 2025. 

12.  Consider and accept donations from Tractor Supply Company, City Wide Mission Organization, and Houston Livestock Show 
     and Rodeo given to the Grimes County Sheriff's Office Diversion Crew. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (PC/CM/JF) 

13.  Road Department Report. 

14.  Discuss and take action on the $18,161 cost to remove illegally dumped tires from Holland Creek within County Road 403 
     right of way. 

15.  Discuss the CDBG TDA Brosig Avenue Bridge project. 

16.  Consider and take action to approve annual funding of heavy equipment. 

17.  Consider and take action on a resolution regarding a contract for the purpose of financing heavy equipment. 

18.  Request approval of a committee to select an administrative services consultant for the 2024 Disasters CDBG-DR GLO grant 
     application. 

Grimes County Clerk - Barbara Kimich (JF) 

19.  Discuss and take action to approve outside training from Local Government Solutions (LGS) for new County Clerk staff. 

Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

20.  Consider and Take Action to Make Budget Amendment to District Attorney’s Office Machinery & Equipment Line. 

21.  Consider and take action to approve the Interlocal Agreement between Waller County and Grimes County for shared costs of 
     506 District court personnel salary and benefits and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

22.  Discuss and take action regarding the procedure for obtaining signatures on contracts or documents from the Commissioners 
     Court members after Court approval, and then filing fully-executed contracts or documents with County Clerk and Auditor. 

23.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (PC)  24.  Consider and take action on restructuring and/or adjusting the Election Administrator's salary. It is expected that the Court will 
      convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code § 551.074 (deliberate the appointment, 
      employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

 Grimes County Human Resources Director - Talitta Coleman (JF) 

 25.  Consider and take action on employment status of a county employee. It is expected that the Court will convene a closed or 
      executive  session pursuant to Texas Government Code §551.074 (deliberate the appointment, employment, evaluation, 
      reassignment,  duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 02/11/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 