                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Accept donations and/or gifts to the County pursuant to Texas Local Government Code 81.032. 

 2.   Approve Monthly Report submitted by the County Treasurer for January 2026 and authorize advertisement of affidavit of 
      same, in accordance with Local Government Code 114.026. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 4.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 5.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Employee Service Awards: 

 6.   Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
       
      5 YEARS 
      Glen Fenton 
      Tom Maynard 
      Gregory Patton 
       
      10 YEARS 
      Blane Hechler 
     Steven Lowery 

Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

7.   Human Resources, IT, Elections 

Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

8.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
     Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
      
     Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
     Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
      
     Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center, Fleet Maintenance Committee 

Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Agents  

9.   Quarterly Interpretation. 

Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce Executive Director - Mariana Almanza-Cook (DT) 

10.  Presentation of Quarterly Update: October 2025 - December 2025. 

Grimes County Justice of the Peace Precinct 2 - Lester Underwood (JF) 

11.  Discuss and take action to increase budget by $6,000.00 for document scanning and preservation. 

Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (PC) 

12.  Discuss and take any necessary action on projects and repairs. 

13.  Discuss and take action to approve the change order of $48,526.51 for the Generator Project at the hospital. 

14.  Discuss and take action to allow the maintenance department to apply for the Fiscal Year 2026 Agricultural Water 
     Conservation Grant. 

15.  Discuss and take action to adopt Resolution 20260318 to allow the Maintenance department to apply for the Fiscal Year 2026 
     Agricultural Water Conservation Grant and designate Authorized Representatives. 

Grimes County Emergency Management Services Coordinator - Dione Bumpous (JF) 

16.  Discuss and take action to approve the Application for the State Homeland Security Program Projects FY 2026 - Constables' 
     Office. 

17.  Discuss and take action to approve the Application for the State Homeland Security Program Projects FY 2026 - Grimes 
     County Emergency Management. 

Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF/DT/CM) 

18.  Discuss and take action to approve a contract amendment with Jackson Heavy Equipment Training for motorgrader training for 
     Road Department personnel. 

19.  Discuss and take action to approve a sole source procurement from vendor Substrata for Perma-Zyme subgrade stabilizer. 

20.  Discuss and take action to approve or deny a request for variance from the developer of the West Magnolia Forest Water Plant 
     in Precinct 2. 

21.  Consider and take action to approve annual funding of heavy equipment. 
 22.  Consider and take action on a resolution regarding a contract for the purpose of financing heavy equipment. 

 23.  Discuss and take action to approve or deny a request for variance for the replat of Freedom Acres Lots 1 & 2 in Precinct 1. 

 Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

 24.  Discuss, review and take action regarding any matter pertaining to the county vehicle monitoring system. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 25.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. 

 26.  Receive any updates on the Strategic Plan. 

 Grimes County Human Resources Director - Talitta Coleman (JF) 

 27.  Consider and take action renew the Grimes County ARTS program agreement for 2026. 

 28.  Consider and take action to create a salary continuation position for the county and discuss personnel concerns for the Sheriff's 
      Office. It is expected that the Court will conduct a closed session as authorized by Texas Government Code 551.074 
      (Personnel Matters). 

 Grimes County Elections Administrator - Rachel Walker (PC) 

 29.  Consider and take action on restructuring and/or adjusting the Election Administrator's salary. It is expected that the Court will 
      convene a closed or executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code § 551.074 (deliberate the appointment, 
      employment, evaluation, reassignment, duties, discipline, or dismissal of a public officer or employee). 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 02/25/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 