                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                     Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                  
David Tullos                                                                                         Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                           Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                             Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                      Notice of the Special Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                    Wednesday, May 13, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
Call to Order 

Public Comments 
We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
minutes per person.  

Grimes County Attorney - Megan Barcak 

1.    EXECUTIVE SESSION: the Commissioners Court will meet in a closed/executive session pursuant to Section 551.087 of the 
      Texas Government Code to discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information that the Commissioners Court 
      has received from Space Exploration Technologies Corp. The Commissioners Court is conducting economic development 
      negotiations and will deliberate an offer of financial or other incentive to the business prospect of a multi-phase, next-
      generation, vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturing and advanced computing fabrication facility, proposed to be 
      located at the Gibbons Creek Reservoir and surrounding areas. 

Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED:  05/07/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 