                                    Grimes County Commissioners Court 
Chad Mallett                                                                                    Michael Raska 
Commissioner, Precinct #1                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #3 
                                                                                                                 
David Tullos                                                                                        Phillip Cox 
Commissioner, Precinct #2                                                          Commissioner, Precinct #4 

                                                                     
                                                 Joe Fauth III 
                                            Grimes County Judge 
                                                270 FM 149 W. 
                                            Anderson, Texas 77830 
                                                         
                                     Notice of the Regular Meeting of the 
                               Commissioners Court of Grimes County, Texas 
                                                         
                                  Wednesday, August 19, 2026 at 9:00 AM 
 
 Call to Order 

 Invocation 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. Flag 

 Pledge of Allegiance to the Texas Flag 

 Public Comments 
 We look forward to hearing from the citizens of Grimes County. If you wish to make public comments you will need to submit a 
 Public Participation Form prior to the start of the meeting and give it to the County Clerk. Public comments will be limited to 2 
 minutes per person.  

 Consent Agenda Items 

 1.   Consider and take action to approve the Treasurer's List of Claims and Bills. 

 2.   Consider and take action to approve payroll. 

 3.   Consider and take action to approve Budget Amendments and/or Line-Item Transfers. 

 Presentation of Employee Service Awards. 

 4.   Consider and recognize the following employees for their years of service: 
       
      10 YEARS 
      Clint Becker 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 5.   Consider and take action to select Salary Grievance Committee (SGC) according to Local Government Code 152.014 and 
      152.015. 

 Presentation of Monthly Departmental Reports:  

 6.   Emergency Management Services  Presentation of Monthly Commissioners Court Liaison Reports: 

 7.   County Judge: Maintenance, HR, IT, Emergency Management, Road Department, Veterans Services, Elections, Navasota 
      Grimes County Chamber of Commerce; 
       
      Commissioner Pct. 2: Animal Shelter, Historical Commission, Navasota Grimes County Chamber of Commerce, Bluebonnet 
      Groundwater Conservation District Board;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 3: 911 Addressing/Permits/Environmental/Solid Waste, BVCOG Solid Waste Advisory Committee;  
       
      Commissioner Pct. 4: Fairgrounds, Hospital Contracts, EMS Services, Health Resource Center 

 Grimes County Historical Commission Chairman - Kathy Wells (DT) 

 8.   Discuss and take action to authorize the historical commission to organize a Sunday In The Park community cultural history 
      event. 

 Grimes County Engineer - Jon Steiber (JF) 

 9.   Road Department Report. 

 10.  Request authorization to bid or renew annual contracts. 

 Grimes County Auditor - Jessi Murphy (JF) 

 11.  Review and accept the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for FYE 9/30/2025. 

 Grimes County Commissioner Precinct 4 - Phillip Cox 

 12.  Discuss and take action to issue a letter of intent to purchase ambulances. 

 Grimes County Judge - Joe Fauth III 

 13.  Consider and take action regarding the Burn Ban and authorize the County Judge as signatory. (Not currently under a burn ban 
      order.) 

 14.  Discuss and take action on any issue regarding FY 27 Proposed Budget. 

 Grimes County Facilities Director - Rodney Floyd (JF) 

 15.  Discuss, consider, and take action regarding security measures at the Grimes County Historical Courthouse. It is expected the 
      Court will convene in executive session pursuant to Texas Government Code Sec. 551.076, deliberation regarding deployment 
      or implementation of security personnel and security devices. 

 Adjourn 

  


                                 
Joe Fauth III, Grimes County Judge 
 
DATED: 08/12/2026 
 
Notice is to remain so posted continuously for at least 3 business days preceding the date of said meeting. (This Court reserves the 
right to convene in executive session at any time deemed necessary for the consideration of confidential matters under the Texas 
Government Code, Sections 551.071-551.084.) A Public Participation Form must be completed and submitted to the County Clerk no 
later than 15 minutes prior to the start of an open meeting of the Commissioners Court. Further information on Public Comment can 
be found in the Rules of Procedure, Conduct and Decorum available from the County Clerk.  
 